"In the world of “healthy” options, it’s rare that you’ll find a vegetable that can offer that combination salty and sweet, along with a crunchy texture. But that’s exactly what’s delivered in this recipe, created by Liv Langdon, founder of Liv Lang & Prosper, and a Born Fitness meal prep specialist.
  On the nutrition side, Brussels sprouts are loaded with fiber, are a great source of the B vitamins, and contain glucosinolates, which show promise in fighting cancer. Need another reason? One word for you: bacon. We use turkey bacon in this version, but the original stuff works just as well.
  Ingredients
  
  2-lb bag of Brussels sprouts
  1 apple (I used Fuji here)
  3 slices turkey bacon, nitrate free and uncured (feel free to substitute if vegetarian)
  ¼ cup slivered almonds
  2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil,
  ½ tsp Himalayan sea salt
  ¼ tsp pepper
  ½ tsp garlic powder 
  
  Because anything with bacon can be delicious.
  Directions
  
  Preheat the oven to 425 degrees.
  Trim the Brussels sprouts and cut into halves. Make sure to wash them first.
  Slice the apples and turkey bacon into small chunks. The shapes and size of the chunks don’t matter; just have fun with it.
  In a large bowl, combine the chopped Brussels sprouts, the sliced apples and sliced bacon, olive oil, garlic, salt and pepper. Toss until fully coated.
  On a baking tray, spread Brussels sprout mixture flat.
  Bake for 35-40 minutes until the Brussels sprouts are brown, crisp and tender.
  Remove from the oven and sprinkle the almond slivers on top. Bake for another five minutes until the almonds are lightly toasted brown.
  Serve warm as a side dish. It even tastes good cold in a packed lunch on the go.
  
  Nutrition Information & Macros
  Dietary information: Gluten-free, lactose and dairy free. Paleo (depending on your restrictions of the Paleo diet, turkey bacon may or may not be acceptable)
  Serving size: 4-oz serving (1/8 recipe):
  73 calories, 1g fat, 12g carbohydrates, 5g fiber, 4g protein
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"