"The problem with training is rarely the exercises you perform, but, rather, how they are combined together into a program that will challenge and change your body.
  At some point, rep-after-rep-after-rep just doesn’t do the job, no matter how hard it feels. And, this is especially true for at-home workouts. If you want to make the most of your time training, you need a plan.
  We’re here to stop the randomness of bodyweight and resistance band plans. The truth is, you can completely transform your body with minimalist equipment, but only if you know how to progress week-over-week and make sure you don’t burn out your body.
  Instead of using barbells or dumbbells, we’re going to maximize the use of resistance bands. This resistance band workout uses a classic workout split (push/pull/lower body or PPL) to create the ultimate 3-day muscle and strength-building split that challenges all the major muscle groups. The plan is simple enough to work for beginners and still has enough progressions (especially if you use bands with more resistance) to challenge more advanced trainees.
  Push/Pull/Legs (PPL) is a 3-day muscle-building and strength-based workout split. Each workout focuses on either pushing, pulling, or your legs.
  Your push workout will target primarily your upper body, specifically the chest, shoulders, and triceps.
  The pull workout focuses on the backside of your body. It is built around rowing movements that target your back and biceps.
  Finally, the leg workout focuses exclusively on the lower body. You’ll hit your quads, hamstrings, and glutes all in one workout.
  Are you ready? Whether you’re only training at home, want to work out on the road, or just need a joint-friendly new training plan to create a spark, we break down everything you need — including a 4-week plan designed for results. 
  Want more workouts? Just click the image below for an additional 12 weeks of bodyweight workouts. 
  Table of Contents
  
  Are you new to training with resistance bands?How Do You Get The Right Tension In The BandHow often should you train?Your 4-Week Resistance Band WorkoutWhat if you don’t have a resistance band at home?Exercise Band Video Demonstrations 
  Now It’s Your Turn
  Are you new to training with resistance bands?
  The first question you should ask is how to set the right resistance. After all, as we mentioned, this plan can work for a beginner, and it can also challenge those who consistently work out if you add more resistance or use heavier bands.
  To get the most of our resistance band workouts, you need the band to start above its “resting threshold.” In other words, before you begin any movement, you should feel the resistance in the band. Then, be sure to take your time, feel the burn, and squeeze your muscles during the workout. You want it to have constant tension through the full range of motion.
  How Do You Get The Right Tension In The Band
  Getting the right tension in your bands comes down to your foot placement. Get it right, and the band will resist your full range of motion. Get it wrong, and the band will be either too tight (and therefore restrict your range of motion) or not tight enough to challenge you.
  Here’s a quick video on where to put your feet in the bands and how to adjust the tension.
  
  How often should you train?
  At a minimum, you should perform this workout 3 times per week. Just make sure you follow the Push, Pull, Lower body/Legs cadence. Examples of how to structure your week and when to rest are included below.
  Sample workout splits you may consider:
  3 Workouts Per Week
  
  Monday: Leg workout
  Tuesday: Off
  Wednesday: Push workout (upper body workout)
  Thursday: Off
  Friday: Pull workout (upper body workout)
  Saturday/Sunday: Off
  
  3 Days On, 1-Day Off (6 Workouts Per Week)
  
  Monday: Leg workout
  Tuesday: Push workout (upper body workout)
  Wednesday: Pull workout (upper body workout)
  Thursday: Off
  Friday: Leg workout
  Saturday: Push workout (upper body workout)
  Sunday: Pull workout (upper body workout)
  Monday: Off
  Tuesday: Pick back up again with the leg workout
  
  As a starting point, perform 3 sets for the exercises we outline below. You can adjust the number of sets based on your weight training experience, or increase the sets once it feels easy. If you’re short on time, just run through all of the exercises once and the workout will take about 20 minutes.
  Your 4-Week Resistance Band Workout
  If you want to start challenging your body with a planned workout, try our 4-week resistance band workout. Below, you’ll find an outline of the plan, a detailed video explanation for each exercise, and a video showing the entire workout.
  Legs Resistance Band Exercises
  
  The first two movements of these workouts are what we call “primers.” Think of them as quick, workout specific warm-ups that will help you move better. They won’t require a band and can be done in just 1-2 minutes. After you complete the primers, then you move into the workout.
  EXERCISE
  SETS/REPSA1. Kneeling Adductor Stretch 
  2x :30 holdA2. Glute Bridge
  2×10B1. Band Resisted Rear Foot Elevated Split Squat
  3×10-12eaC1. Band Resisted RDL
  3×10-12C2. Bear Crawl 
  3×10 yardsD1. Band Resisted Glute Bridge
  3×10-15E1. Bodyweight Squat 
  2×20 + :10 hold last rep
  Push Resistance Band Exercises
  The first two movements of these workouts are what we call “primers.” Think of them as quick, workout specific warm-ups that will help you move better. They won’t require a band and can be done in just 1-2 minutes.
  
  EXERCISE
  SETS/REPSA1. Shoulder Taps
  2x8eaA2. Single Leg Plank (:15 ea leg)
  2x:30B1. Pushups
  3×10-12B2. Band Resisted Floor Press
  3×10 (squeeze at top for :2)C1. Pike Press (or Inchworm)
  3×5-12D1. Band Resisted Lateral Raise
  3×12-15D2. Band Resisted Tricep Pressdown
  3×12-15
  Pull Resistance Band Exercises
  The first two movements of these workouts are what we call “primers.” Think of them as quick, workout specific warm-ups that will help you move better. Use a light band for the face pull and focus on a full range of motion.
  
  EXERCISE
  SETS/REPSA1. Bird Dog
  2x10eaA2. Band Resisted Face Pull
  2×10B1. Single Arm Resistance Band Row
  3×10-12eaC1. Hollow Band Resistance Band Lat Pulldown
  3×10-12D1. Band Resisted Bent Over Row
  3×10-12E1. Resistance Band Pull Apart
  3×15-20E2. Resistance Band Hammer Curl
  3×15-20
  This workout program is a great start for you but if you are looking for more personalized workouts, nutrition advice, and accountability, then checkout Born Fitness Online Coaching. Everything is handled through a private app and customized to your lifestyle.
  Need help getting off your ass at home? With our coaching program, you get 2 coaches in your corner. Learn more here.
  What if you don’t have a resistance band at home?
  There are many different resistance band options, but we recommend The EliteFTS Pro Monster Mini Resistance Band.
  Exercise Band Video Demonstrations
  Let’s go through each movement below to make sure you are doing it with proper form.
  Kneeling Adductor Stretch
  
  Glute Bridge
  
  Band Resisted Rear Foot Elevated Split Squat
  
  Band Resisted RDL
  
  Bear Crawl 
  
  Band Resisted Glute Bridge
  
  Bodyweight Squat 
  
  Shoulder Taps
  
  Single-Leg Plank
  
  Pushups
  
  Band Resisted Floor Press
  
  Pike Press
  
  Band Resisted Lateral Raise
  
  Band Resisted Tricep Pressdown
  
  Bird Dog
  
  Band Resisted Face Pull
  
  Single Arm Resistance Band Row
  
  Hollow Band Resistance Band Lat Pulldown
  
  Band Resisted Bent Over Row
  
  Resistance Band Pull Apart
  
  Resistance Band Hammer CurlNow It’s Your Turn
  That’s all we have for you. Now we want to hear from you:
  
  What exercise are you most excited to do?
  What exercise split are you going to choose?
  Or do you have a question on any of the videos we shared?
  
  Let us know by leaving a comment below.
  -BJ, Head Fitness Coach
  
  P.S. Need more content for working out and staying healthy at home? Check out our COVID-19 page where we have more bodyweight workouts, nutrition advice, and other free content.
  BJ WardBJ is a veteran exercise coach with over 9 years spent coaching in-person clients, field-tested nutrition and diet coach, former sports science lab research assistant, and a life-long lover of movement. And pie.
  Ultimate Guide To Bodyweight Exercises For Your Home WorkoutThe Beginner Resistance Band Workout You Can Do At HomeThe Beginner’s Guide To Fat LossSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"