"There are many factors — food hyper-palatability, high-stress lifestyles, and confusing misinformation — are all near the top of the list. But on a purely social level, the desire to chase the next trend is a big part of the problem.
  In diet and exercise, consistent movement and healthy eating keeps the doctors (and obesity) away.
  In social media, doing something new, cool, and different keeps FOMO at bay. 
  It’s the battle of FOMO (exciting) vs. repeated daily behaviors (boring).
  In reality, it should be the battle of frustration (look, a new trend!) vs. confidence and results (I know what to do!)
  The choice should be easy. But, the power of “what if” plays tricks on your mind. 
  
  “What if…This next trend is better?” 
  “What if it’s more effective?” 
  “What if I’ll be healthier?”
  
  Your heart dreams of something better, but your mind ignores reality. 
  You don’t change jobs every day. You don’t move to a new home every week. You don’t substitute friends and family like socks and underwear. 
  Consistency and stability are a big part of what leads to more happiness and less stress. Reliable anchors make it easier to thrive in chaos.
  It’s time to start asking: “What if all these distractions are the real reason I’m stuck and headed in the wrong direction?”
  If you were forced to stick with one plan for a year, you’d see better results, stress less, and save a hell of a lot of time that’s typically wasted window shopping on your health. 
  We think doing something new is the missing part of the equation. 
  In reality, doing the same few healthy behaviors — and making progress over time — is what adds up to better results. 
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"