"Some foods sound too good to be healthy. Lucky for you, flavor has never been dependent on added sugars or other additives that make you feel guilty about what you’re eating. In a world of carb-fear, any type of wrap or bread-based product receives an unfair reputation as “fattening.” Nothing could bar farther from the truth. Enter the buffalo chicken quesadilla.
  This recipe is the definition of balance: a good source of carbs from the tortilla, a protein-packed (and flavorful) boost from the buffalo chicken, and some monounsaturated-rich avocado, and you have a meal that fits any macronutrient plan.
  The bonus: the shredded buffalo chicken is versatile for many different recipes. Make lettuce wraps for a great gluten-free snack at work; serve as a dip with carrots, celery or rice chips at the next party; or, wrap it up and grill the outside for added crunch.
  Step 1: How to Make Buffalo Chicken
  Ingredients
  
  4 chicken breasts
  1 ½ c Frank’s hot sauce
  Dash of each of the following:
  Onion powder
  Garlic powder
  Chili powder
  
  Directions
  
  Rinse and trim the fat off four chicken breasts.
  In a slow cooker (CrockPot), add all ingredients.
  Cook on high for 3 to 4 hours, or on low for 5 to 6 hours.
  Using a fork shred the chicken.
  Put aside and let cool.Step 2: How to Make Buffalo Chicken Quesadillas
  Ingredients
  
  3-4 oz. (about 1/3 cup) shredded buffalo chicken
  2 flourless sprouted grain tortillas*
  ¼ avocado, sliced thin
  1 tbsp reduced-fat blue cheese crumbles 
  
  *I used “Food for Life” Ezekiel 4.9 sprouted grain tortillas. Feel free to use brown rice tortilla for a gluten-free alternative.
  Directions
  
  Spread the avocado slices on one tortilla.
  Top with the shredded chicken.
  Sprinkle the blue cheese crumbles on top of the chicken.
  Top with the other tortilla.
  Bake in toaster oven on high or conventional oven on 425 degrees for about 5 to 8 minutes, or until the cheese melts and the tortilla turns a golden brown.
  Let cool, then cut into triangles.Nutrition Information and Macros
  Dietary information: Nut-free
  Macronutrient breakdown
  
   2 6’’ Ezekiel wrap: 160 cal, 2g fat, 28g carb, 6g protein
  ¼ avocado: 45 calories, 4.5 g fat, 2.5g carbs, 0.6g protein
  1 tbsp blue cheese: 2g fat, 0g carb, 2.3g protein
  3 oz chicken: 142 calories, 3.1g fat, 0 carbs, 26.7g protein
  
  Total: 369 calories, 11.6g fat, 30.5g carbs, 6g fiber, 36g protein"