"Creative options for a quick, easy-to-make healthy breakfast seem few and far between. Eggs are great, and so is oatmeal. But eating the same thing every day can make grabbing a bowl of cereal feel like the only option.
  So we decided to add a little variety to your breakfast menu. This quinoa breakfast bowl offers a high-protein, fat loss friendly meal that will satisfy those frustrating moments when you want something different to start your day.
  Why it’s a Healthy Recipe
  Dubbed a “superfood,” quinoa has been around for centuries providing an excellent source of fiber-rich carbohydrate that’s also high in protein.
  Gogi berries are another one of those foods with nutritional qualities that make it a great addition to almost any meal. This fruit, which is also a herb, has been used for thousands of years in Chinese medicine. With its high antioxidant properties, vitamin C and beta-carotene content, it’s the food version of a super-packed multi-vitamin.
  Add the almonds and coconut, both great sources of healthy fats that have been shown to help lower your LDL cholesterol, and you have a potent combination of food that tastes great and provides your body with the nutrients it wants and needs.
  Ingredients
  Serving size: 2 servings Cook time: 20 minutes Difficulty: Easy
  
  ½ c uncooked quinoa*
  1/2 c unsweetened almond milk
  2 tbsp. Gogi berry
  2 tbsp. unsweetened toasted coconut flakes, more for garnish is desired
  2 tbsp. toasted almond slivers
  2 tsp. stevia
  1 tsp. ground cinnamon
  1/2 tsp. sea salt
  1 tsp. of raw honey, optional
  2 scoops protein powder
  
  *We used a tri-colored quinoa, but any quinoa will be great in this dish.
   Directions
  
  In a small pot, add the quinoa, one cup of water and sea salt. Bring to a boil, then cook and reduce to a simmer until cooked, about 15 minutes.
  Meanwhile, assemble the ingredients. You might want to lightly toast the almond slivers and coconut flakes. It’s not a necessity, but toasting tends to bring out more flavor.
  Once the quinoa is ready—you’ll know when it doubles in size and there’s no water left—remove from the heat and fluff it up with a fork.
  Stir in the almond milk, stevia, cinnamon and salt. Then add the protein powder—it’s better to add this once the quinoa has cooled from the almond milk. Stir and fold in the almonds, coconut and Gogi berries.
  Drizzle with honey and garnish with more coconut flakes and Gogi berries if you want it to look all pretty.Nutritional Information & Macros
  Dietary Information: Gluten-Free, Vegetarian, Low Fat, Kosher, Vegan (if vegan protein powder is used) Macros per serving (1/2 recipe):
  
  343 calories
  9g fat
  32.4g carbs
  33g protein"