"We all know that alcoholic drinks aren’t “healthy.” Yeah, some people will make the case for red wine, (with seemingly overrated claims of resveratol) but alcohol is what it is. You drink to be social. You drink to celebrate. You drink to drown your sorrows. Healthy or not, it’s a part of life.
  As with most things, the poison is in the dose. So if you want to enjoy booze (especially during the holiday season) but spend more time eating your calories instead of drinking them, here are two options that will make your drinks a little healthier. As you’ll notice, there’s none of the common felons: added sugars or syrups, the alcohol content isn’t overdone, and the portions are controlled.
  Apple Toddy
  It’s a hot toddy with new-age fireball twist. I created this after I went camping one night and a friend made hot cider that was about 90 percent fireball, and yet it still tasted pretty good. This mix isn’t as intense and is incredible served hot.
  Ingredients
  
  1 orange, cut into quarters
  4 cloves
  2 cups apple juice
  2 cinnamon sticks
  1 shot fireball
  ½ apple, sliced thinly
  whiskey
  
  How to make it
  Slice the orange into quarters, and then press a clove into each piece. (Fancy cooking folks will call this “studding” the orange.) In a saucepan add the apple juice, oranges, fireball, and cinnamon sticks. Bring to medium-high heat until it begins to simmer. Then add the mix into 4 separate cups. Add 2-3 slices of apple into each cup, and add ½ shot to 1 shot of your favorite brand of whiskey (or brandy).
  Distinguished Delight
  I’ve been to Portland once in my life and some mixologist served me a drink that had a flavored vodka and Earl Grey tea. Once I returned home I began experimenting with other variations of this drink because I couldn’t remember exactly what was used. I knew whipped cream vodka and orange tasted surprisingly good, and the Early Grey just worked well with the pineapple. I definitely recommend on the rocks.
  
  Ingredients
  
  8 oz whipped cream vodka
  8 oz chilled Earl Grey tea
  4 ounces pineapple juice
  4 orange slices
  4 cherries
  
  How to Make it
  Combine all of the ingredients (except orange slices and cherries) and then refrigerate for about 2 hours. Pour into 4 separate glasses (on the rocks, if preferred) and garnish with an orange slice and cherry.
  At Born Fitness We Drink
  Join us as we raise a glass to no more bad health information or dogma. Each week we share information on nutrition and fitness that blends the best of science with practical advice you can apply to your life. Sign up below and join the movement.
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"