"Not every food needs to be a diet food or low calorie.
  When it comes to building muscle it isn’t about hammering lots of protein to build mass—it is about adequate calories + stimulation from training (and of course some protein). If you are a hard gainer, eating enough calories every day can feel like work. There are times when you might need a higher-calorie food that isn’t bulky or makes you feel stuffed. In this situation, ideal foods are calorie-dense and light in the stomach so you don’t feel weighed down.
  These Cacao Tahini Rice Crispy Treats are a healthier spin on traditional rice crispy treats but will still satisfy that sweet tooth.
  Ingredients:
  
  4 cups rice crispy cereal
  1/2 cup cacao nibs
  1 cup tahini
  1 tbsp coconut oil
  1/4 cup honey (less if you want it less sweet)
  1 tsp vanilla extract
  8×9 glass baking dish
  Parchment paper
  
  Directions
  
  Combine cereal and cocoa nibs in a large bowl.
  In a small saucepan on medium-low heat whisk together tahini, coconut oil, honey, and vanilla extract for one minute until smooth.
  Pour Tahini mixture over cereal. Gently mix until cereal is well coated.
  In a glass dish lined with parchment paper pour tahini on the cereal mixture. Using another dish or a glass press the cereal down firmly.
  Place in the freezer for one hour before cutting into nine equals squares.
  Wrap each individually and place in the freezer refrigerator for when you’re ready.
  
  Calories/Macros
  1 serving = 1 square
  Appropriately: Calories 230, protein 5g, carbs 24g fat 13g, fiber 3g
  For a step-by-step video, check out the Born Fitness Instagram
  
   
  Natalie SabinNatalie is a M.S. in Nutrition & Performance candidate; anticipated completion December 2021. She is a level 2 Precision Nutrition coach and holds a B.S. in Health Sciences. Natalie has helped hundreds of clients simplify nutrition and reach their goals since she joined the Born Fitness team in 2017.
  Chocolate Chia Protein PuddingFried Egg Burrito(Semi-Homemade) Asian Chicken BowlSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"