"Need a High-Protein, Easy-to-Eat Snack? This Recipe Has You Covered.
  One of the main reasons people tend to overeat is because they’ve waited too long to satisfy their hunger. (Unless, of course, you’re following a variation of intermittent fasting.) Whether you eat many times throughout the day, or just need something to tide your hunger, healthy snacks, or in-between small meals, are sometimes the hardest to choose.
  Enter the protein-packed, gut friendly spin on a traditional snack. This Greek yogurt recipe, from Liv Langdon, founder of Liv Lang & Prosper, is perfectly balanced by the tart lemon, sweet vanilla and plump blueberries.
  Why You Should Eat and Enjoy
  The chia seed adds texture and is the richest plant source of omega-3 polyunsaturated fat. Not to mention, it’s a complete source of protein. Blueberries contain pterostilbenes, which make them a rich source of antioxidants and have shown potential to decrease the growth of cancer cells.
  And, good news for those who are lactose intolerant (about 30 million of Americans), the recipe also contains bacteria in the live cultures, which breakdown much of the lactose in yogurt before you eat it.
  These natural probiotics (beneficial gut microbiota) have shown to strengthen the gut, which houses 70% of our immune system. Make sure to look at the ingredient label to ensure that there are limited (or no) added sugars to the yogurt; it’s worth the extra time to add your own flavors to the plain variety.
  Use the suggested toppings as a guide to switch up the flavors and texture. Just note, the chia seeds will absorb any liquid in the Greek yogurt, so if made in advance the yogurt will thicken a bit.
   Lemon Berry Chia Yogurt
  Ingredients: 
  
  1 c plain non-fat Greek yogurt
  1 tsp fresh lemon juice
  ¼ tsp grated lemon grind
  1 packet Stevia
  10 drops of Sweet Leaf Stevia, vanilla crème flavor (can substitute with 1 packet Stevia and ¼ tsp vanilla extract)
  ½ tbsp chia seed
  1/2 c fresh blueberries (or other berry of choice)Suggested toppings (optional)
  
  1 tbsp toasted unsweetened coconut
  1 tsp ground cinnamon
  1 tbsp toasted almond slivers
  
  Directions
  
  In a serving bowl, combine the first six ingredients. Stir with a spoon until mixed.
  Add blueberries on top. Sprinkle with additional chia seed and grated lemon if you want a pretty presentation.Nutrition Information and Macros
   Dietary information
  
  Gluten free
  Nut free
  Vegetarian
  No added sugar
  All-natural protein
  Low-calorie
  Natural probiotic (Greek yogurt contains live cultures)
  About ½ less lactose than regular yogurt, with approximately 95% lactose removed from Greek yogurt during manufacturing
  
  Macronutrient breakdown: 
  
  Non-fat Greek yogurt (8oz/1 cup): 130 calories, 0g fat, 11g carbs, 6g sugar, 23g protein
  Chia seed ½ tbsp.: 30 calories, 1.5g fat, 2g carbs, 0g sugar, 2.5g fiber, 1.5g protein
  Blueberries (½ cup): 40 calories, 0.24g fat, 10.51g carbs, 7.22g sugar, 1.7g fiber, 0.54g protein
  
  Total macros: 200 calories, 1.74g fat, 23.51g carbs, 13.22g sugar, 4.2g fiber, 25.04g protein
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"