"Don’t remove carbs from your diet. Find better options like this quinoa-based dish to fuel your body. 
  The blandness in your diet can usually be blamed on one of three things: a lack of time, creativity, or variety.
  An easy way to solve all three issues: a good side dish, which can be added to almost any meal or enjoyed as a snack. Enter the mediterranean quinoa salad.
  Often mistaken as a grain, quinoa—pronounced keen-wah—is actually a seed. A complete protein and full of minerals, quinoa’s high-quality nutritional profile is undeniable. The taste, on the other hand, can be pretty bland.
  Sure, eating basic nutrient-dense foods can help you with weight loss, but why suffer? This quick and easy recipe, created by Liv Langdon, Born Fitness meal prep specialist and founder of Liv Lang & Prosper, can be made in less than 15 minutes.
  If you’re a vegetarian, this is a go-to balanced dish with protein-packed quinoa and almonds. For the rest of us, add a grilled chicken breast or fish on top and lunch is ready to go.
  Ingredients
  
  2c cooked quinoa*
  ¼ c sundried tomatoes, sliced
  ½ c artichoke heart quarters, in water
  1/3 c almond slivers, lightly toasted
  2 tsp garlic, minced
  ½ tbsp olive oil
  ½ tbsp. grassfed butter, unsalted
  2 fresh basil leaves, thinly sliced
  1/2 lemon, freshly squeezed
  ¼ tsp Himalayan sea salt
  Black pepper, to taste
  1 oz. crumbled feta cheese, just for taste (optional)
  
  *Quinoa can be cooked in advanced using water (to keep it vegetarian friendly) or use a low-sodium chicken broth for added flavor.
  
  Directions
  
  In a large sauté pan on medium heat, add the olive oil and garlic.
  When the garlic is slightly toasted, add in the rest of the ingredients except the feta cheese. Stir until well combined.
  Cook for five to 10 minutes to let the flavors develop. Stir occasionally.
  Top with crumbled feta cheese, if desired.
  Serve up ¼ of the recipe for a light, vegetarian-friendly meal or add a grilled chicken breast to bump up the protein.
  Makes four servings.Nutritional Information & Macros
  Dietary Information: Gluten free, Vegetarian
  **If you want dairy-free, omit the feta cheese.
  Macros per serving (¼ of the recipe)
  
  222 calories
  10g fat
  25g carbs
  7.5g protein
  
  Total breakdown for 4 servings
  Quinoa: 444 calories, 8g fat, 80g carbs, 16g protein
  Almond slivers: 170 calories, 14g fat, 6g carbs, 6g protein
  Olive oil: 60 calories, 7g fat, 0g carbs, 0g protein
  Butter: 50 calories, 5.5g fat, 0g carbs, 0g protein
  Sundried tomatoes: 34 calories, 0.68 g fat, 7.4g carbs, 2g protein
  Artichoke hearts: 35 calories, 0g fat, 6g carbs, 2g protein
  Feta cheese: 74 calories, 6g fat, 1.2g carbs, 4g protein
  Total: 889 calories, 41g fat, 100g carbs, 30g protein
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"