"Minimum Effective Dose is part of the Born Fitness mission to provide usable, simplified answers to common questions, add valuable information, and upgrade your health. Each week we’ll provide tips and thoughts (with links) that will improve your life without overload.
  
  To Burger or Not to Burger: That is the real question   
  
  Why You Should Read It: You want to know if saturated fat is ok.
  Why You Care: “People who ate higher levels of saturated fat did not have more heart disease than those who ate less. Nor did it find less disease in those eating higher amounts of unsaturated fat, including monounsaturated fat like olive oil or polyunsaturated fat like corn oil.”
  #BeTheChange: Saturated fat might not be as bad as you thought. No need to completely avoid (i.e. you can eat burgers)…but don’t go crazy either.
  Does Walking Improve Creativity? 
  Why You Should Read It: You want to get past that mental block
  Why You Care: “Stanford researchers found that walking boosts creative inspiration. They examined creativity levels of people while they walked versus while they sat. A person’s creative output increased by an average of 60 percent when walking.”
  #BeTheChange: Here’s how a daily walk might help you solve your every day problems.
  Can Coffee Help Fight Type 2 Diabetes?
  Why You Should Read It: You don’t know if you should drink that second cup of joe in the morning.
  Why You Care: “The researchers found that the participants who increased their coffee intake by more than one cup a day (on average, an increase of 1.69 cups per day) over a 4-year period had an 11% lower type 2 diabetes risk over the subsequent 4 years, compared with people who did not change their intake.”
  #BeTheChange: Coffee may have several health benefits. Here’s how you may be able to have your coffee and decrease the chance of disease too.Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"