"This should be easier. Wake up, eat a healthy meal, go to work, and start your day off on the right foot.
  The reality: If you believe surveys, more than 31 million American’s skip breakfast because they feel they don’t have time (if you don’t want breakfast that’s another story), and 42 percent of “quick food patrons” would like McDonald’s breakfast for their next morning meal.
  Healthy breakfasts? They’re just not as easy you’d like, which is why instead of cooking healthy recipes or eating foods high in protein you’re grabbing a sugar-filled granola bar on the way out the door.
  You time is valuable, which is why we created a simpler solution. You want quick, healthy meals, and that's exactly what this high protein breakfast offers.
  You time is valuable, which is why we created a simpler solution. You want quick, healthy meals, and that’s exactly what this high protein breakfast offers.
  The best part: there’s no cooking involved, whatsoever.
  The formula is simple: add the mouth-watering combination of peanut butter and banana to diet staples, oats and protein, and spike it with a few extra healthy foods, and you have peanut butter banana protein overnight oats.
  Why it’s a Healthy Recipe
  The fiber in the oats and the healthy fats in the chia seed and peanut butter will keep you fuller for longer because fiber and fat slow down digestion (this is a good thing). The yogurt adds a creamy thickness that gives a slight tart twist to the sweet banana and the salty peanut butter combination. This is where your taste buds will thank you.
  Spend less than 5 minutes putting it together in a bowl, and voila you have a hearty, protein-rich breakfast waiting to make your mornings a little better.  
  [Editor’s note: this also happens to be Born Fitness CEO Adam Bornstein’s go-to preworkout meal.] 
  Ingredients
  Serving size: 1 serving
  Creation time: ~5 minutes (plus overnight time to let it properly soak and become even better tasting)
  
  ½ c old-fashioned oats
  ¾ c unsweetened vanilla almond milk
  1 tbsp. chia seed
  1 tbsp. all-natural creamy peanut butter
  1 tbsp. peanut butter powder*
  ½ banana, diced
  ¼ c non-fat plain Greek yogurt
  ½ scoop protein powder**
  2 packets of Truvia (or sweetener of choice)
  Dash of cinnamon
  Honey, raw and unfiltered (optional)
  
   
  **We recommend a vanilla, banana or peanut butter flavored protein powder for this recipe. We used Athletic Greens grass-fed whey, vanilla flavor.
  Directions
  
  Add all ingredients together in a bowl (or mason jar). Mix until combined. Refrigerate overnight. Technically, you only need to 2.5 to 3 hours before it’s ready to eat, so feel free to make this recipe at any time of the day. Drizzle with honey, if desired. 
  
  Nutritional Information & Macros
  Dietary Information: Vegetarian, Gluten free (if gluten-free oats are used), High Fiber
  Macros per serving*:
  459 calories
  15g fat
  50g carbs
  31g protein
  *Yes, some people might consider this a hearty breakfast. So if you want, simply cut the recipe in half or separate into 2 bowls and enjoy on separate days, or have the second half as an afternoon snack.
  
  READ MORE: 
  Another Fast, Easy, Healthy Breakfast: Eggs on the Go
  PB&J Protein Snack Balls
  Peanut Butter Protein Rice Krispies Treats"