"All protein shake recipes are not created equal. Some are traditional classics (peanut butter and bananas, berries on top of berries), while others are really desserts masquerading as a healthy option. (My Frosted Flakes shake comes to mind.)
  And then there are those that recreate the category by taking a favorite food and bring it to life in liquid form. Enter your new favorite healthy snack: the pumpkin pie protein shake.
  Why It’s a Healthy Recipe
  Pumpkin is an underrated nutrition powerhouse. It’s packed with fiber, cancer-fighting carotenoids, and more potassium than a banana.
  This version of pumpkin pie takes your favorite flavors, removes the heavy cream and loads of sugar, and creates the protein-packed version in a glass.
  And while the flavor is great, it’s the added benefits that make it worth your while. Pumpkin is an underrated nutrition powerhouse. It’s packed with fiber, cancer-fighting carotenoids, and more potassium than a banana.
  This is a perfect post-workout shake, providing natural carbohydrates to refuel your energy, protein to build your muscle tissue, and a little healthy fat from the coconut milk and chia seed to keep you full and satisfied. Plus, the potassium in the pumpkin and banana will replenish those electrolytes lost after an intense training session. 
  Ingredients
  
  1 c unsweetened coconut milk*
  1/3 c pumpkin puree
  1/4c old-fashioned oats
  ½ frozen banana
  ½ tbsp chia seed
  ¼ tsp pumpkin pie spice*
  ¼ tsp cinnamon
  1.5 scoop protein powder***
  5 drops Stevia Drops, vanilla crème flavor****
  3 ice cubes
  
   *Milk substitutions—almond, low-fat, soy, rice—will work too, but the consistency will not be as thick.
  **If you don’t have pumpkin pie spice on hand, add a dash of each the following: cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, allspice.
  ***The best flavors for this recipe are graham cracker (yes, they make delicious flavor), vanilla, cinnamon swirl or unflavored. 
  ****You can sub this with ½ tsp Stevia and ¼ tsp vanilla extract
  Directions
  
  Add all ingredients into the blender, and pulse until smooth.
  Enjoy immediately. Makes one awesome serving.
  
    
  Nutritional Information & Macros 
  Dietary Information: Dairy/Lactose free, Gluten free (if gluten-free oats are used), No added sugar (natural sugars in fruit), Vegetarian, Vegan (if Vegan protein used),
  Macros per shake (one serving) 
  
  387 calories
  9g fat
  40g carbs
  37g protein"