"Any diet that eliminates all bread is a diet that won’t work for me. 
  This is my stance, and I’m not backing down. After all, if there’s one thing I’ve learned from assessing hundreds of diets, it’s that creating a plan that completely removes all foods you love is an approach that has a high likelihood of failure.
  And while I realize my diet isn’t for everyone, I also understand that bread is something that is almost universally enjoyed. So if you’re trying to limit your carbs, up your protein, and follow a diet where you avoid potential allergens (like gluten or dairy), then this recipe might become a weekly staple of your diet and allow you to still eat bread. 
  Created by Liv Langdon, founder of Liv Lang & Prosper, this low carb bread recipe surprises with it’s ability to capture the texture of an enjoyable bread, but with a nutrition profile that will leave anyone smiling. -AB
  How to Make Low-Carb, High-Protein Bread
  We could all use a little more bread and vegetables in our life, but one is viewed as healthy and the other a pain to to eat. But who says we can’t have both in our diet and enjoy it? Packed with protein, high in fiber and low in carbohydrates, this cauliflower bread will be sure to please your taste buds. It’s a perfect garlic bread alternative to the popular zucchini “spaghetti” and meatballs. Toast a slice up with your morning omelet for a protein-packed breakfast, or eat it when you just want to eat a piece bread because you’re a human and it tastes good.
  Ingredients:
  
  1 medium head of cauliflower
  ½ c coconut flour
  ¼ c grated parmigiano reggiano
  2 whole eggs
  1 c liquid egg whites
  1-2 tbsp fresh rosemary, finely chopped
  1 tsp garlic powder
  ¼ tsp ground onion
  1 tsp Himalayan sea salt
  ¼ tsp white pepper
  1/2 tsp smoked paprika
  ¼ tsp cayenne pepper
  1 ½ tsp baking powder
  Optional: 2 tsp Pure Irish grass-fed butter
  
  Who says bread and pasta can’t be a part of a healthy diet?
  Directions:
  
  Preheat the oven to 420 degrees.
  Trim the leaves and chop the cauliflower into small chunks.
  Add the cauliflower to a large food processor (or blender) and blend until small rice-like pieces form.
  Add the remaining ingredients. Blend until fully combined. The mixture should be pretty thick. Feel free to substitute different spices and herbs to satisfy your taste buds.
  Line a bread pan with parchment paper and spray it with a non-stick olive or coconut oil spray.
  Pour cauliflower bread “dough” in the lined pan. Flatten the top and sprinkle with additional herbs and spices. (optional)
  Bake for 10 minutes at 420 degrees. Then lower the oven temperature to 375 degrees, and cook for another 45-50 minutes, or until a toothpick comes out clean. The outside will be a beautiful golden brown and the inside moist.
  Let cool for 15 minutes.
  Slice, add the butter and serve*.
  The bread can be stored in the fridge for about a week. Make sure to cover it with aluminum foil and in air-sealed container or plastic bag.
  
  *If reheating, I highly recommend using a toaster oven. The crusts become nice and crispy while the bread stays moist.
  
  Nutrition Information (macros included)
  Dietary information: Gluten free, nut free, lactose free
  Serving size: 2 slices (based on a 12-slice loaf)
  110 calories, 15g protein, 3g fat, 5g carbohydrates, 4.5g fiber
  READ MORE: 
  Do Carbs Actually Make You Fat?
  Fix Your Diet: Understanding Proteins, Carbs and Fats
  Eating at Night Does Not Make You Fat
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"