"Pullups are the ultimate test of relative body strength. Whether you’re a beginner or an expert, here’s how to do more and see progress.\nWe’ve all heard the old adage “You’ve got to learn how to crawl before you can learn how to walk.” Nothing could be more accurate in the gym.\nUnfortunately, when it comes to their training and exercise selection, most people suffer through workouts that don’t deliver the best results because they perform exercises beyond their ability.\nPerforming exercise variations that are too advanced for your current level of fitness, or attempting to progress towards these variations too quickly sets of a disastrous sequence of events: poor body alignment, a lack of control and a reduced range of motion, limited muscle tension, and ultimately lackluster progress and results.\nYour goal is to perform the right exercises for your current level of fitness–not the most advanced–and work up slowly and progressively over time with proper technique.\nAs part of an ongoing series, you’ll learn how to become better at any exercise. This guide will teach you to master the pullup.\nChoose the appropriate exercise variation based on your current level of fitness, and then build your way to a stronger body.\nHow to Do More Pullups\nLevel 1: Chin-ups\nHow to do it\nHang from an overhead bar, palms facing you, with a shoulder width grip. From a dead hang, flex your elbows and pull yourself up until upper chest contacts the bar. Pause for a full second in the contracted position, pulling your shoulder blades down into your back pockets, before lowering yourself under control back to the starting position. That’s one rep.\nWhere to Begin\nBegin by performing 5 sets of one half your current chin-up maximum. (For example: if you can perform 6 full chin-ups, start with sets of 3 reps), resting 2 minutes between sets.\n\nYour Goal \nWork up to performing 5 to 6 sets of 5 to 6 reps, resting 2:00 between sets. Once you’ve achieved the goal, move on to level 2.\nLevel 2: Mixed Grip Pull-ups\nHow to do it\nHang from an overhead bar, one palm facing you and one palm facing away from you, with a slightly wider than shoulder width grip. From a dead hang, flex your elbows and pull yourself up until your chin clears the bar. Pause for a full second in the contracted position, pulling your shoulder blades down into your back pockets, before lowering yourself under control back to the starting position. That’s one rep.\nWhere to Begin\nAssuming you’ve mastered level 1, begin by performing 6 sets of 3 reps (alternate your grip each set), resting 2:00 between sets.\n\nThe Goal \nWork up to performing 6 sets of 5 to 6 reps (alternating your grip each set), resting 2:00 between sets. Once you’ve achieved the goal move on to level 3.\nLevel 3: Pull-ups\nDescription\nHang from an overhead bar, palms facing away from you (overhand), with a slightly wider than shoulder width grip. From a dead hang, flex your elbows and pull yourself up until you chin your chin clears the bar. Pause for a full second in the contracted position, pulling your shoulder blades down into your back pockets, before lowering yourself under control back to the starting position. That’s one rep.\nWhere to Begin\nIf you’ve mastered level 2, begin by performing 5 to 6 sets of 3 reps, resting 2:00 between sets.\nThe Goal\nWork up to performing 5 to 6 sets of 5 to 6 reps, resting 2:00 between sets. Once you’ve achieved the goal move on to level 4.\nLevel 4: Towel-Ups\nHow to do it \nFold two heavy duty hand towels, evenly spaced, from an overhead bar. Set a strong grip on each towel and move into a dead hang position. Once your grip is set, flex your elbows and pull yourself up until your chin clears the bar. Pause for a full second in the contracted position, pulling your shoulder blades down into your back pockets, before lowering yourself under control back to the starting position. That’s one rep.\nWhere to Begin\nNow that you’ve mastered level 3, begin by performing 5 to 6 sets of 3 reps, resting 2:00 between sets.\nThe Goal \nWork up to performing 5 to 6 sets of 5 to 6 reps, resting 2:00 between sets.\nAdam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.\nThe Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"