"Every month I write a column for Muscle & Fitness magazine called “Born Fit.” In it, I answer real questions asked by real people on Twitter. These are my unedited answers to those questions. If you want to potentially be featured in the magazine tweet at me and ask a question using the hashtag #BornFit and #AskBorn. -AB \nCan I Become Shredded With Bodyweight Exercises?\nYou know what’s funny? Even in 2014 the fitness world is still highly influenced by infomercials. Back in the day it was Jack LaLanne and Body By Jake, then the BowFlex and 8-Minute Abs, and today it’s P90X and Insanity. Each of these approaches had elements of success—but they all spawned massive trends in the fitness industry. And right now it’s fast-paced, high intensity workouts that usually require bodyweight exercises.\nSo do the programs work? Yes—but much like learning how to successfully fold a fitted sheet—the devil is in the details.\nBy now, most of you know that high intensity interval training (the ever popular “HIIT”) is great for fat loss. But there are some rules for really making it work. You’ll read all about effective forms of HIIT lasting as short as 4 minutes (the Tabata method) and topping out around 15 minutes. The reasons being the workouts are effective because of the intensity and not the duration.\nThat’s where the limitation of bodyweight comes in: if you’re going to do HIIT bodyweight workouts, you might need to train a bit longer or make sure you hit large muscle groups. The book on fat loss is pretty clear:\nExercises using multiple large muscles + little rest between sets = aerobic and metabolic benefits.\nThe greatest benefit of high intensity training is when you can add resistance and progressively make your workouts harder. While there are definitely bodyweight variations that are more difficult (or you can add weighted vests), bodyweight movements make it harder to progress and maintain a level of max intensity during intervals.\nPut in other terms: Imagine doing 70- or 80-percent of your 1-rep max on back squats for 20 seconds compared to doing bodyweight squats for the same time period. I think you know what will crush more fat cells.\nWhat does it all mean? Bodyweight workouts can help you get shredded, but you’ll want to keep 2 things in mind:\n\nIf you’re just doing bodyweight, you’ll want to make your workouts a little bit longer to make sure you create enough overload and metabolic stress.\nFocus on big muscle movements like squats, pullups, pushups, and inverted rows. Don’t select movements like planks and side planks if you really want to see big results. Sure they’ll work your abs, but they won’t burn that many calories, which is the real reason why high intensity workouts are so effective.\n\nBut wait! There’s more…I don’t care what workout you do, if your diet isn’t in order, even the best workout in the world won’t uncover your abs. You might not hear it mentioned on TV, but that’s as good of guarantee as you’ll ever find.\nBeyond Bodyweight…\nTired of bad and misleading health information? You’re not alone. Now you can learn:\n\nWhat workouts will work for your body\nHow to eat and live the way you want\nWhen you should be worried about the latest health study\n\nYou’re one step away from a better approach to health. Sign up for our newsletter here and know that Born Fitness has your back.\nREAD MORE: \nHow to Build the Perfect Bodyweight Workout\nAre Planks Overrated?\nThe Truth About the 7-Minute Workout\nAdam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.\nThe Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"