"Sometimes I get too busy to exercise.Or I don’t feel like eating healthy. Some days, I don’t hit my macros and I don’t really care. I’ve felt fat before even though I’m not. I’ve felt weak before, although no one would ever tell me I am. I’ve disliked how I’ve looked and been frustrated by my efforts.My sleep, well, it could use a lot of work. \nWhat does it all mean?\nI’m human. I’m flawed. I have insecurities (Yes, even as a guy). And I’m not perfect. And sometimes I’m just really hard on myself because I know I can be better.\nBut you know what? I no longer let these fleeting moments bother me because I can put them in context and not let them overwhelm me.\nWe all have bad days. Sometimes we all feel bad about ourselves even when we have NO reason to do so. I wish it never happened, but the way to lessen those tough moments is to create a better context of “health.”\nOne of the bigger problems in this industry is that we have too many details to worry about that we lose sight of what really matters. We stress over all the small things and, in doing so, living a “healthy life” feels like a burden.\nThe outcome: we either reject the healthy behaviors or become obsessed to the point that it controls other areas of our lives.\nLife happens. Breathe. Enjoy. Go with it. Don’t set your standard at perfection.\nThe end game is not mastering diet and exercise or making it everything in your life. It’s understanding how it should play a part in your happiness and making sure you can experience the type of life you want.\nYour fitness or nutrition plan should have two priorities:\n\nMake you happy\nBe sustainable and designed for the long run.\n\nIt’s up to you to determine what that looks like. Whether it’s training 5 days a week and working until you can see your abs, or just being healthy enough to play with your kids and feel good in your own skin.\nYou want to be healthy? Start by simplifying your approach and making it easier for you to succeed.\nAnd that means not letting the bad days crush you. They happen to us all.  You’re not alone. You’re not lazy. And you’re not a bad person.\nLife happens. Your job isn’t to control it all. It’s to live and enjoy.\nAdam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.\nThe Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"