"The Hype Machine is the crossroads where science meets real-life application to debunk some of the biggest myths in health and fitness, directly from Born Fitness editor in chief, Adam Bornstein.\nDear Liver/Kidney Detox Diet Plan Lovers,\nPlease consider this information before assuming that healthy foods and the most popular detox diet will cleanse your liver or kidneys.\nYour liver is your toxic removal system. Unless you have a liver disease, the bad stuff just doesn't load up in there.\nThe idea of detoxing is inherently flawed. Why? \nBecause your organs do not store toxins the way you might think.\n\nYour liver is a cleansing system. It takes the crap in your body, runs them through chemical reactions, and then eliminates as bile. That’s the reason why any detox from here until the end of time just won’t do most of what it promises unless the human body evolves.\nYour liver is your toxic removal system. Unless you have a liver disease, the bad stuff just doesn’t load up in there.\nYour kidneys? They function in a very similar fashion and also dump waste byproducts. If not, then it stays in your blood stream. Not your kidneys.\nSo if your kidney’s and liver are functioning, then there’s no need to detox them.\nIf you want to eat healthy foods for other reasons, please indulge and eat up. If you like a good greens juice for the nutritional value, please drink up. I know I enjoy them.\nBut just be honest with yourself about what’s actually happening in your body, and don’t purchase with the belief that it will fix health problems that aren’t even really an issue.\nWant to learn more about the cleansing process and limitations of detox diets? Read more here.\n\nAdam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.\nThe Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"