"What works for you won’t always be backed by science. \nWhat is supported by science won’t always work best for you. \nThat doesn’t mean your non-scientific approach isn’t effective.\nIt also doesn’t mean the science that does not support your approach isn’t right. \nThe most effective approach for the majority of people is what is supported by science. But, even the best research has limitations. It can’t adjust to all the details of real life. Once you realize this, it’s easier to navigate the “you” plan with fewer bumps in the road.\nUse science like a compass, but don’t be afraid to channel your inner explorer. \nUse science like a compass, but don’t be afraid to channel your inner explorer.\nThe destination of your ideal health plan is found at the intersection of doing what works and experimenting with what works for you. \nHow do you find this desired location? \nUse science to leverage principles that we have strong reasons to believe are true and will work for the majority of people. \nUse personal experience, lifestyle factors, and personal preferences to adjust the principles to work for you, even if it means bending the rules.\nLearning to balance these two variables — and letting the former lead the latter — will help guide you to better health.\nAdam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.\nThe Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"