"Want to burn some fat and tone those muscles all in one sitting? Drop your dumbbells for a minute ladies, because the resistance band is about to become your new favorite piece of equipment. The following circuit-style resistance band workout alternates simple cardio moves with toning resistance band exercises. Why the band? The resistance band is a light, portable, yet challenging workout tool that has long been a favorite of trainers and group fitness teachers alike.
  Benefits of Resistance Band Training
  
  All Levels are Welcome! The band’s intensity is based on its thickness. Want to work harder? Grab a thicker band. Beginner? Grab a thin one. Most brands offer 4-5 levels of thickness.
  Change Matters: Dumbbells work, but after a while your body adapts to the same moves over and over. It’s good to switch it up. The band gives you options to move your joints in different ways.
  Light and Portable: Throw them in your gym bag, carry them to a friend’s, or slide them into your suitcase when you travel. The band allows you to strength train any time and anywhere.
  Affordable:  Most bands will cost you $20 or less. Where can you get one? SPRI, Amazon, Target, Wal Mart, Dicks Sporting Goods…you get the picture. They’re everywhere.
  
  Due to the ease of the band, you can literally do this workout anywhere: at home, at the gym, on your driveway or in a tiny hotel room. User-friendly is a understatement! So, let’s get to it.
  10-Minute Resistance Band Workout
  Get your timer out: you’ll perform each move below for 1 minute. You’ll alternate between one minute of a resistance band move and one minute of a cardio burst. Click on the title of the band exercise for photos and directions.
  Cardio Burst: Jogging in place
  
  Resistance Band Side To Side Squat
  
  Click here to learn how to do resistance band side to side squats. 
  Cardio Burst: Jumping Jacks
  
  Resistance Band Chest Press
  
  Click here to learn how to do a resistance band chest press.
  Cardio Burst: Burpees
  
   
  Resistance Band Butt Blaster
  
  Click here to learn how to do a resistance band butt blaster.
  Cardio Burst: High Knee Run
  
  Resistance Band Lunge With Overhead Press
  
  Click here to learn how to do a resistance band lunge with overhead press.
  Cardio Burst: Jumprope (no rope required)
  
  Resistance Band Mid-Back Pull
  
  Click here to learn how to do a resistance band mid-back pull.
  
  READ THIS NEXT: The Beginner’s Guide To TRX"