"When you haven’t worked out in a while, the thought of starting back up again can be intimidating. Where do you begin? What equipment will you need? How can you start burning calories and fat fast? The good news is, if you’re looking to burn fat, I’ve got a quick workout you can do right now, right where you are—no equipment necessary—and I think you’re going to love it! All you’ll need for this quick, fat blasting routine is a little room to move around and 10 minutes. Because these are all high intensity moves, you will be breathing heavy after the first 2-minute round. You will then rest for 1 minute (you can thank me later) and repeat this sequence 3 times. The plyometric moves (jumping) work to get your heart rate elevated and help you burn fat faster!
  Here’s how it looks: 
  
  1 minute of light jogging in place to warm upPerform each exercise for 30 seconds with no rest in betweenAfter finishing all four, rest for 1 minute and repeat the sequence 2 more times
  
  Bam! About 100 calories blasted in just 10 minutes. Another side effect—you’ll be wide awake and full of energy!  PS: drink some water when you are done, you will need it!
  Diamond Jacks
  
  A) Start with legs wider than shoulder distance apart, turn the toes out, and bend knees in a wide plié position. Hands rest in front of the chest with one hand cupping a fist.
  B) Using your lower body muscles, jump up touching heels together and land in your starting position. When touching the heels think of squeezing your inner thighs.
  Continue for 30 seconds, rapidly enough to breath hard through your mouth.
  Split Jumps
   
  
  A) Stand tall with your feet hip distance apart. Hands are in front of the chest, hands on fist. Take a large step forward with one foot and lower your body toward the floor. Both legs should be bent at a 90-degree angle at the bottom of the lunge.
  B) Lower the back knee slightly and jump to switch the legs, coming into a lunge on other leg. Repeat.
  Perform continuous jumps for 30 seconds.
  Related: Why HIIT Is Good For Burning Fat
  Mountain Climbers
  
  A) Place hands on floor slightly wider than shoulder distance apart. Bring your body into plank position and engage your abdominals.
  B) Bring one knee in towards your chest, then switch feet and draw the other knee in, alternating back and forth quickly.
  Mountain climb fast for 30 seconds
  Squat Jumps
  
  A) Start standing with feet hip-distance apart and lower into a squat position by bending the knees. Keep the spine straight, chest lifted, and knees behind toes. Arms are in front of the chest for balance.
  B) Jump straight up and swing arms overhead. Return to squat.
  Squat jump quickly for 30 seconds
  READ THIS NEXT: Bye Bye Back Fat Workout"