"Good news: the old wives’ tales that kept women from exercising during pregnancy are gone! Let’s clear the air with the facts right away: exercising will not hurt you or the baby. In fact, the opposite is true. If you are otherwise healthy and the pregnancy is going well, then staying fit during pregnancy is better for both parties. Of course, checking with your doctor is your first priority. But given the go-ahead, one of the best ways to do this is through strength training. After all, what takes more strength than delivering a child? But besides the pregnancy and childbirth, maintaining lean muscle on your body is going to provide tremendous benefits for you once the baby has arrived. Let’s look at all the benefits pre-natal strength training provides.
  
  Strength training during pregnancy has been shown to:
  
  Boost energy
  Ease low back pain
  Promote faster labor
  Promote easier labor
  Promote quicker healing and recovery
  Promote getting back to your former body fasterIt seems like a no-brainer, right? So, we’ve put together a great, full-body strength training routine for the mom-to-be or anyone else for that matter! Just remember to keep these tips in mind as you workout:
  Strength Training Tips During Pregnancy
  1) Keep it slow
  Pregnancy fills you with a hormone called “relaxin” which makes your joints move more easily. Moving slowly will give you a better result and keep you safer in the process.
  2) Stick to higher reps but lower weight
  It’s always safer to keep your heart rate at a moderate level when you are pregnant so choose lower weights and perform more repetitions.
  3) Keep your upper-body elevated after the first trimester
  Your growing uterus can compress the vena cava, the major vessel that returns blood to your heart, potentially reducing blood flow and making you feel dizzy or nauseated.
  Related: Prenatal Yoga Flow Workout
  10-Minute Prenatal Strength Workout
  For this routine, you will need light to medium weights. Go through each exercise performing 15-20 repetitions before moving to the next one. After finishing the entire set, return to the beginning and repeat for a second time through. This should take you approximately 10 minutes.
   Squat Curl with Knee Lift
  
  A) Start standing with feet hip distance apart and lower into a squat position bending the knees. Keep the spine straight, chest lifted and knees behind toes. Arms stay long holding dumbbells as you squat.
  B) Squeeze your glutes to lift up and out of squat. Lift one knee up toward chest and curl the dumbbells up to shoulder height. Straighten arms and leg and return to squat position. Repeat on the other side.
  Perform 15-20 reps per leg.
  Arnold Press
  
  A) Stand with feet hip distance apart holding dumbbells at shoulder height with arms tight to the body and palms facing in.
  B) Rotate wrists out and extend your arms overhead and return to start with control.
  Perform 15-20 reps.
  Cross Behind Lunge with Lat Raise
   
  
  A) Start standing tall with feet shoulder distance apart and dumbbells in hands.
  B) Bring your weight to one foot and cross the other foot behind your body into a lunge position, keep hips facing forward. Lower the hips until your front thigh is parallel to the ground. Your back heel will lift. Shift your weight to the front leg for balance and lift the back leg forward to return to your starting position.
  C) Lift arms out to the sides up to shoulder height in a lateral raise working the lats and shoulders. Keep the elbows slightly bent. Repeat on the other side.
  Perform 15-20 reps per leg.
  Related: Why We Need More Healthy Role Models When It Comes To Pregnancy
  Tricep Overhead Extension
  
  A) Standing feet hip distance apart. Arms are long with dumbbells directly overhead. Keep your spine long and abs tight.
  B) Bend elbows lowering dumbbells to the base of the head. Keep your elbows hugging in toward your head and pointing forward. Then extend your arms long returning to your starting position working the triceps.
  Perform 15-20 reps.
  Forearm Side Plank
  
  A) Lie on the floor with your forearm on the mat with shoulder stacked over the elbow. Legs are long with feet stacked on top on each other.
  B) Lift your body into a side plank position, keeping your lower knee on the floor and your abdominals engaged. Try to to let your hips rise or drop.
  Perform 15-20 lifts per side.
  When finished, take some time for water and begin again from the top for a complete 10-minute workout!
  Want more? Check out our Full Baby Bump Fitness System Program on Get Healthy U TV!Click here to get your printable chart!
  
  
  READ THIS NEXT: Rock Your Body After Baby"