"It’s that time of year when everyone is so busy you barely have time to come up for air. Make your weekly meal planning a snap with our healthy freeze-ahead recipes from our favorite foodies. These recipes are easy to make and Get Healthy U-tested so you are guaranteed a delicious meal that everyone will love. And with the holiday’s coming up, we might even suggest making a double batch of each recipe to drop off for a friend, a neighbor in need, new parents or anyone who might appreciate a home-cooked meal. After all, good food made with love should be shared and it’s the season of giving.  Nothing wrong with a little random act of kindness! Check out these 11 scrumptious make-ahead freezer meals.
  Low-Carb Pizza Stuffed Chicken Breasts
  We are huge fans of pizza and anything stuffed, so this recipe has the best of both worlds. These juicy chicken breasts filled with Italian seasoning, pepperoni, and red sauce make the perfect meal to come home to after a long day, simply thaw ahead of time, bake and a home cooked dinner is served!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: SugarFreeMom.com
  Split Pea Soup
  This low-calorie recipe has a nice, light smoky flavor and will warm you up from the inside out on a cold day. Plus, peas are packed with protein and nutrients!
  
  PHOTO CRDIT: GetHealthyU.com
  Pepper Jack Stuffed Zucchini Meatloaf
  Why didn’t we think of this? A cheese stuffed meatloaf loaded with veggies and seasoning and slathered in an “awesome sauce” which we’re pretty sure will become your favorite condiment.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: AmbitiousKitchen.com
  Lazy Girl Turkey Salsa Chili
  Sometime simple recipes are the best. This lazy girl chili is simple to make, packed with protein and the perfect place for those extra veggies in the fridge before they spoil.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: FitFoodieFinds.com
  Very Veggie Lasagna
  Sometimes it can be hard to sneak in those leafy greens like spinach. This veggie lasagna is the perfect freeze-ahead solution. This layered masterpiece is filled with gooey cheese and sauce and turns out fabulous every time!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GetHealthyU.com
  Paleo Chicken Pot Pie
  Nothing says comfort food like chicken pot pie! This yummy paleo recipe is so creamy and delicious you won’t believe it’s dairy-free and gluten-free. We keep things simple and use rotisserie chickens in this recipe. The crust is nice and flakey just like mom used to make.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: EverydayMaven.com
  Cabbage Rolls
  We love this low-calorie recipe that uses nutrient rich and delicious cabbage as a wrapper.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GetHealthyU.com
  Layered BBQ Sweet Potato Chicken Enchilada Casserole
  This is a Team Get Healthy U favorite! These ingredients pair so well together and bake up into a slightly sweet and very sassy casserole.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: AmbitiousKitchen.com
  Beef And Barley Soup
  Everyone knows homemade soup is food for the soul! This delicious recipe has a rich hearty flavor and has tons of veggies. This healthy recipe is so yummy your family will never guess they are eating kale.
  
  PHOTO CRDIT: GetHealthyU.com
  Paleo Casserole With Turkey, Pepperoni, Zucchini, And Tomato
  A casserole that takes 15 minutes to prep and tastes amazing: you can’t go wrong with this super simple recipe!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: FoodFaithFitness.com
  Italian Turkey Meatballs
  Simply delicious these low-calorie juicy meatballs are so versatile you can serve over pasta, or even spaghetti squash with a nice red sauce.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GetHealthyU.com
   And if you’re craving a little something sweet after these delicious meals, be sure to check out these flourless black bean avocado brownies for dessert. These brownies are full of chewy chocolate fudge flavor and weigh in at just 136 calories each!
  Happy cooking! 
  READ THIS NEXT: 14 Meals in a Muffin Tin"