"There is nothing worse than being zoned-in on a good workout, when suddenly an annoying hair malfunction totally throws you off your game! Ugh! We have all been there, probably more than once. Let’s commit here and now to solving our unwanted hair distractions, and looking good while we do it! The solution: Workout Headbands! You can keep your wispies away while also making a fun fashion statement. I have a whole drawer full of them, because what girl doesn’t love options? Check out my favorites, so you too can free your face from frizzies!
  Thin Sparkle Workout Headbands by Sparkly Soul | Athleta
  We all need a little sparkle! Who can resist these headbands to add some glitter to your gear?
  
  Sweaty Betty Anna Headband
  The Sweaty Betty Anna headband is an awesome, super-wide headband that’ll keep your flyaways tamed and hair in place while you sweat it out at the gym! The sweat-wicking fabric keeps moisture at bay, and the width of the headband makes it perfect to cover up your ears to protect you from the elements if you take your exercise outdoors!
  
  Fly Away Tamer Workout Headbands | Lululemon
  Holds hair steady so no annoying fly aways that limit your workout! Comes in three different colors, too.
  
  The Bolder Band Workout Handbands | Bolder Band
  When you want your headband to be your motivation, look no further than Bolder Band.
  
  Related: The Best Cold-Weather Clothing For Winter Workouts
  Luna | Urban Halo
  Inspired by the Lunar tides, this headband is designed with sweat-wicking fabric to keep you cool and dry along with super soft, stretchy fabric to keep you headache-free (yes!).
  
  Reflective Supervisor | Headsweats
  Ok, so while this isn’t technically a headband, it serves the same purpose. This reflective supervisor keeps the sun and hair out of your eyes plus it has the added benefit of keeping you safe during early morning or late night hours due its reflective fabric.
  
  Patriotic Workout Headbands | Funky Cow Girl Boutique
  Add a little style to your workout accessories with this patriotic knotted headband. You will be a guaranteed trendsetter if you rock this at your next workout class!
  
  Colorwash Purple, Blue | Sweaty Bands
  Sweaty Bands has SO many fun patterns and colors to choose from. We love this purple and blue colorwashed look.
  
  Jacquard Workout Headbands | Prana
  Made with recycled materials, this thick-banded headband comes in pink and purple patterns all while providing excellent sweat control and hair management.
  
   
  Aztec Workout Headbands | Funky Cow Girl Boutique
  This fun tribal headband is made from lyrca/spandex blend to stay secure on your head and can be worn wide, scrunched or folded over in half.
  
  Gentle Ouchless Workout Headbands | Goody
  A comforting fit and gentle on the head!
  
  Now you need a better sports bra. Check out our favorite sports bra that’s a perfect fit and comes in fun colors!
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 8 Cute Leggings To Add To Your Collection"