"Smoothie bowls are hot right now and for all of the right reasons. Kicking off your morning with a bowl full of fruits, veggies, nuts, and seeds provides you with enough energy to tackle anything the day might throw at you. Smoothie bowls are the smoothie’s heartier big sister. Nut butters, avocados, and bananas add creaminess and thickness while nuts, grains and seeds sprinkled on top add crunchiness and heaps of omega-3s, fiber, and vitamins. Plus, they are super easy to make and even easier to drool over. Here are 12 of our favorite recipes to try for a delicious, nutritious breakfast, snack, or lunch!
  1) Classic Acai Bowl
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: ThePigandQuill.com
  Acai is an antioxidant-loaded Brazilian berry that has taken the U.S. health food market by storm. Acai bowls—smoothie bowls featuring acai—have also become extremely popular. Here is a classic recipe that includes, among other ingredients, acai, bananas, blueberries, sliced kiwi, granola, and coconut chips for toppings. Yum!
  2) Tropical Detox Smoothie Bowl
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GetHealthyU.com
  Dive into this wonderful bowl of tropical bliss! Pineapple and lemon both have detoxifying properties and add a refreshing element to this bowl. Top with chia seeds, berries, coconut flakes, and nuts for some crunch!
  3) Chocolate Peanut Butter Smoothie Bowl
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: SimpleVeganBlog.com
  This “chocolate” bowl actually uses carob powder, but you can sub unsweetened cocoa powder for a less bitter, more traditional chocolatey taste. Made with rice milk—my personal favorite vegan milk product—peanut butter, and dates, this bowl couldn’t be more simple to make!
  Related: Do Bananas Make You Fat?
  4) Mango Tango Smoothie Bowl
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: EazyPeazyMealz.com
  This smoothie bowl has a super secret protein-packed ingredient: tofu! You may think it sounds weird, but tofu is a great way to add protein to anything, and it’s tasteless. This recipe includes mangos and orange juice and is topped with a variety of tropical fruits and berries for a refreshing treat.
  5) Mocha Banana Protein Smoothie Bowl
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: AmbitiousKitchen.com
  Tired of the traditional cup of joe? This bowl blends instant coffee with banana, spinach, and chocolate almond milk for an innovative, healthy way to get your daily dose of caffeine. Top with carob chips, almond butter, and low-fat granola for some nutty, crunch.
  6) Inner Goddess Raspberry Breakfast Bowl
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: PinchOfYum.com
  This mango raspberry bowl of goodness from Pinch of Yum, with nearly half of your daily value of fiber, has everything you could ever want in a breakfast. Packed with super foods like flax and chia, and topped with delicious coconut oil granola, this bowl will certainly leave your stomach and your taste buds satisfied.
  7) Chia Seed Breakfast Bowl
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: BeginWithinNutrition.com
  Chia seeds are tiny powerful seeds bursting with seemingly impossible amounts of omega-3s, antioxidants, and fiber. Plus, they make for a delicious breakfast bowl. This simple recipe calls for chia seeds, any variety of milk, maple syrup, and vanilla. Very yummy and very filling!
  8) Antioxidant-Packed Blackberry Coconut Smoothie Bowl
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: HelloNatural.co
  Want to get your greens in this morning, but not a huge fan of the earthy taste? This delicious smoothie bowl, in which the bitter taste of spinach is masked by the delicious berry and coconut flavors, is a perfect way to do so. Sprinkle with pumpkin and chia seeds for an extra boost.
  9) Dragon Fruit Smoothie Bowl
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: KeepItKind.com
  The brightest, most photogenic bowl on this list by far. Dragon fruit, or pitaya, has a vibrant color and a tropical flavor that blends well with the mango, kiwi, and pineapple in this bowl. Spinach is hidden among the other sweet flavors and then topped beautifully with granola and fresh fruit in true smoothie bowl fashion.
  Related: The Science of Skipping Breakfast
  10) Blueberry Almond Breakfast Quinoa Smoothie Bowl
  
  PHOTOCREDIT: FoodFaithFitness.com
  This bowl, instead of using standard granola as its grain, gets creative and opts for a healthier super food option—quinoa that is. Super easy recipe with very few ingredients including blueberries and honey-sweetened almond milk.
  11) Peach Pie Smoothie Bowl
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: RealFoodWholeLife.com
  Living up to its name, this bowl allows you to enjoy the flavors of peach pie sans-guilt. This bowl is super creamy, with a base of almond butter, peaches, banana, and non-dairy milk, and is topped with hemp seeds, flax seeds and of course peaches!
  12) Gorgeous Green Smoothie Bowl
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GetHealthyU.com
  Don’t let the green color of this smoothie scare you away! The color comes from superfood powders, but the banana, greek yogurt, and pineapple mask the powdery taste, giving you a truly gorgeous, and super nutritious, green bowl.
  Want more smoothie bowl and smoothie recipes? Download my e-book, 6-Minute Smoothies, to find a smoothie or smoothie bowl for your every mood!
  READ THIS NEXT: 5 High-Calorie Drink Disasters To Avoid"