"Dust off your muffin tin because it is time to get cooking with these 14 healthy muffin tin recipes! These muffin tin meals are an easy way to create unique and versatile dishes that are perfect for just one or a big group. These tasty morsels are filled with fresh ingredients that your tummy and body will love. Many of these healthy muffin recipes make incredible appetizers too!
  Muffin tins are such a great option for clean eating because they’re automatically perfectly portion controlled. Plus they make for an easy grab and go snack or meal so you don’t have to reach for junk food.
  Skinny Lasagna Cupcakes
  These healthy vegetarian cupcakes are filled with layers of fresh vegetables, basil-infused ricotta cheese filling, and a delicious red sauce. But our favorite ingredient is our sneaky little trick—we used wonton wrappers as the “noodles” to save time and energy!
  
   
  Mini Shepherd’s Pies
  We are kicking comfort food up a notch with these savory Mini Shepherd’s Pies. A golden brown puffed pastry shell is filled with seasoned ground turkey, mixed vegetables, and finished with a cheesy sweet potato topping. You can actually feel good about giving your kids a second helping of pie for once!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GetHealthyU.com
   
  Southwestern Turkey Meatloaf Muffins
  Meatloaf isn’t just for dinner anymore. These protein and fiber-packed Southwestern Turkey Meatloaf Muffins make the perfect quick on-the-go snack or post-workout fuel! You’ll love the sweat and sassy sauce mixed with black beans, peppers, and corn.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GetHealthyU.com
   
  McSkinny Egg Muffins
  Frankly, cooking breakfast for more than three people is a pain. But if you use a muffin tin and only two-ingredients, you will literally have the most stress-free (and delicious!) morning ever. This is where our healthy McSkinny Egg Muffin recipe comes in. Turkey bacon and eggs. Boom. Done! Breakfast for the whole family in less than 20 minutes.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GetHealthyU.com
  Cheesy Egg White Veggie Breakfast Muffins
  A delicious cheesy, omelet with all of your favorite ingredients! I make this recipe the night before and pop it on the oven while I’m getting ready in the morning. It’s the perfect on-the-go protein packed breakfast before I hit the gym or teach a fitness class bright and early. 
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: AmbitiousKitchen.com
  Cheesy Chicken Quinoa Enchilada Meatloaf Muffins
  These Cheesy Chicken Quinoa Enchilada muffins are amazing and one of my family’s favorite recipes ever. The enchilada sauce adds such a great Mexican flair to the turkey and quinoa. I love the sharp, fresh burst of flavor from the cilantro!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: AmbitiousKitchen.com
  Sweet Potato Spinach Egg Muffins
  What I love most about this recipe is the fact that you can make a batch on the weekend and then set yourself up for easy on-the-go breakfasts all week!  And who doesn’t love low-cal, high-protein recipes? Such great way to start your morning off on the right foot!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: SlenderKitchen.com
  Three Cheese Spaghetti Nests
  You really can do no wrong with cheese and noodles, especially with such a gorgeous presentation! This whole-wheat spaghetti recipe will wow any guest in your kitchen with its colorful and flavorful spices of turmeric and smoked paprika!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: FamilyFreshCooking.com
  Kale Cups
  These muffin-like kale cups will brighten any plate and make a great side to a meal. While the kale is earthy and chockfull of vitamins, antioxidants and minerals, it’s complimented with ricotta to make it rich and miso to give it that naturally salty flavor that we all love!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: MuffinTinMania.com
  Buffalo Chicken Mac and Cheese Muffins
  If you were waiting for a guilt-free way to eat this divine food combination, then wait no longer. While still including cheese, noodles, wing sauce, and blue cheese, this recipe comes in the form of portion-controlled muffins. What a great and safe solution to splurge on a favorite comfort food!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: EmilyBites.com
  Cheddar Broccoli Cornbread Muffins
  Most can agree that anything paired with cheese is a great combination, but broccoli has long been a favorite. These muffins work as a great side to a heartier meal or a light on-the-go lunch. This is a great, foolproof recipe to turn broccoli into something fun and easy to devour!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: SugarFreeMom.com
   Pepperoni Pull Apart Muffins
  These flaky, gooey pizza-inspired muffins are under 150 calories and make a great hand-held party snack! Best of all, they’re easy and quick to create and require few ingredients.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: EmilyBites.com
   Caesar Salad Parmesan Cups
  Whoever said salads weren’t fun to eat? These parmesan cups give the classic Caesar salad a fun and much needed twist. This recipe’s homemade dressing is forgivingly light and tangy and the whole snack stacks up to only 47 calories each!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: EmilyBites.com
   Customizable Breakfast Granola Cups
  With only six ingredients, this recipe is incredibly easy to recreate! Fill the granola cups with whatever you like, whether that’s Greek yogurt or pudding, berries or bananas. It’s completely up to you!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: ChocolateCoveredKatie.com
  Now that you have all these tasty muffin recipes to try out it’s time to cook! Plan a party or your next meal with these delicious muffin tin recipes. From Pepperoni Pull Apart Muffins to Enchilada Meatloaf you will be amazed at what you and a muffin tin can create!
  READ THIS NEXT: Make Your Meal Prep Healthy and Easy"