"Greek yogurt is a definite favorite among the Get Healthy U office; in fact Chris eat it nearly every day! Not only does it taste indulgent on its own, you can also cook/bake with it in so many recipes. It’s great swapped in for sour cream, blended in smoothies, layered in parfaits and so much more. Plus, it’s packed with tons of nutrition such as probiotics, protein, and calcium. From breakfast to dinner, below are 15 of our favorite (and delicious!) ways to eat Greek yogurt:
  Greek Yogurt Benefits
  Greek yogurt is thicker and creamier than regular yogurt as it’s been strained to remove the majority of it’s liquid whey, lactose and sugar. It’s packed with twice the amount of protein as regular yogurt and is typically less in sugar. It also is higher in probiotics, so it definitely should make your list of super foods. It’s a great substitution for a protein shake or a serving of meat (6 ounces of Greek Yogurt has 15-20 grams of protein; this is equivalent to 2-3 ounces of meat or poultry). It’s great tasting and satisfies your craving for creamy, silky treats. To keep your waistline in check, look for the plain versions of Greek yogurt and add your own fruit or sweetener. You also can pick the fat content, ranging from full fat to 0% fat—just read the label carefully.
  Related: Why You Should Be Eating Fermented Food
  For Breakfast:
  Basic Ideas:
  
  Add fresh fruit and walnuts ((or this raspberry chia spread!) to your yogurt bowl .
  Sprinkle your Greek yogurt with flaxseed or high fiber granola.
  
  Here are some other awesome recipes:
  Blueberry Vanilla Buttermilk Greek Yogurt Pancakes
  Pop out of bed and break out a whisk because this combo of buttermilk and Greek yogurt makes the fluffiest pancakes ever.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: AmbitiousKitchen.com
  Greek Yogurt Banana Bread
  This banana bread that banks on Greek yogurt’s awesomeness comes in two versions–chocolate chip and nut. Take your pick or take a walk on the wild side and make ’em both!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: LovelyLittleKitchen.com
  Yogurt Breakfast Bowls
  Yes, a Greek yogurt breakfast bowl is pretty basic and “un-genius.” But a Greek yogurt breakfast bowl with curry, freeze-dried mango, and fresh cilantro? That’s a whole different level.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: Health.com
  For Side Dishes:
  Basic Ideas:
  
  Add Greek Yogurt as a substitute for butter and sour cream in creamy dishes.
  Add it for extra protein in dressings on salads.
  
  Cheddar Greek Yogurt Mashed Potatoes
  Yes, everything tastes better with butter. But when you swap out a little of that butter for some FAGE in these mashed potatoes, you’ll start saying everything tastes better with Greek yogurt.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: LifeAsAStrawberry.com
  Greek Yogurt Biscuits
  Your grandma probably makes mean biscuits, but grams should go Greek! The tangy yogurt majorly cuts the fat and adds a bit of extra puffiness.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: TwoPeasandTheirPod.com
  
  Butternut Squash Potato Salad
  Be the star of your office potluck with potato salad. Said no one ever. Be the star of your office potluck with Butternut Squash Potato Salad with a creamy Greek yogurt dressing? Definitely.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: MinimalistBaker.com
  For a Snack
  Basic Ideas
  
  Combine with peanut butter for a yummy fruit dip
  Spread on a graham cracker and drizzle with honey
  
  Avocado Deviled Egg
  Who says deviled eggs have to be reserved for Easter? Greek yogurt and avocado make this healthy version a year round must.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: CoffeeandQuinoa.com
  Skinny Buffalo Chicken Dip
  Invite Greek yogurt to your next football party/The Bachelor viewing party/knitting circle party. Basically, just throw a party and serve this dip. You won’t be sorry.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GimmeSomeOven.com
  For Lunch
  Basic Ideas
  
  Use Greek Yogurt in a fruit smoothie (such as this Mango Green Tea Smoothie).
  Use Greek Yogurt as a replacement for high fat foods like cream cheese, mayonnaise and butter. Spread it on your sandwiches or use it as you prepare salads like potato salad, egg salad or pasta salad.
  
  Here are some other awesome recipes:
  Creamy Tomato Orzo Soup
  Creamy is usually code for fatty. Thankfully, this soup doesn’t follow code (You go, rebel soup!). Greek yogurt adds a luscious, creamy thickness minus the fat that will have you seriously questioning why you ever bought canned tomato soup in the first place.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: TwoPeasAndTheirPod.com
  Greek Yogurt Chicken Salad
  Whoever gave chicken salad its name deserves a medal. They’ve tricked many people into thinking this “salad” is a healthy choice when in reality; it’s a fatty mayo anti-health bomb. That’s why we love this less fat, more delicious Greek yogurt-fied version instead!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: FitFoodieFinds.com
  For Dinner
  Basic Ideas:
  
  As the coating in crispy baked chicken fingers
  As a marinade for deliciously moist grilled chicken
  Mixed into ground turkey with some additional seasonings for Greek burgers
  
  Creamy Greek Yogurt Mac ‘N Cheese with Peas and Bacon
  Greek yogurt and goat cheese team up to make one heck of an ooey gooey bowl of goodness. Mac and cheese addiction is a real thing. Don’t say that we didn’t warn you.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: RunningToTheKitchen.com
  Healthy Chipotle Sweet Corn Fettuccine
  The Italians got a little help from the Greek with this recipe, and the result is one amazing bowl of pasta. Grazie, Greek yogurt!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: PinchOfYum.com
  3-Ingredient Pizza Dough
  Welcome to the least intimidating homemade pizza dough ever. All you need is self-rising flour, Greek yogurt, and Italian seasoning. Technically, that’s like 2.5 ingredients because seasoning doesn’t really count, right?
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: TheSkinnyFork.com
  For Dessert
  Basic Ideas:
  
  Add blueberries, walnuts, honey and dark chocolate chips to your yogurt scoop
  Frost a carrot cake
  Combine with chopped frozen mangoes or bananas and a splash of light rum for a delicious homemade dessert
  
  Coconut Angel Food Cake with Greek Yogurt Frosting
  You CAN have your cake and eat it, too! Why? This recipe is light and fluffy, and the frosting is protein-filled. Hello, seconds!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: TopWithCinnamon.com
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  Greek Yogurt Lemon Mousse
  Cute ramekins will draw you in, but the fact that you can have a restaurant-worthy dessert for about 100 calories will make you stay. We think Greek yogurt and egg whites need to hang out more often.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: SeriousEats.com
  Buy yourself some Greek Yogurt and work it into your meals. It helps promotes fullness and you can reap all of its health benefits.
  READ THIS NEXT: 15 High Protein Breakfasts Under 300 Calories"