"Working out at home is appealing for so many reasons; it’s convenient, affordable, allows for privacy, and doesn’t need to be rescheduled due to poor weather or rush hour traffic. BUT when you’re working out at home, it can be hard to know exactly what to do. What moves will incorporate both cardio and strength training to give you the body you want? Where do you begin?
  We’ve taken the guesswork out of at-home workouts with this 20-minute routine that combines both cardio conditioning and strength training. It’s a well-rounded routine that tones, tightens, and gets your heart pumping all at the same time. What’s even better? Once you’ve mastered this workout, you can try our instructor-guided video for a more challenging workout of the same format!
  You don’t need any equipment for either of these workouts, just a little space and a timer—your smart phone works just fine.
  Here’s how it works:
  
  8 Exercises listed below
  1 minute  each (have your timer ready!)
  No break in between exercises
  Quick break at the end and then repeat.
  Done!
  
  Kick Through Lunge
  Strengthen your legs, improve balance and stretch your hip flexors with this baby. Switch legs after 30 seconds.
  
  Click here to learn how to do a kick-through lunge.
  Jumping Jacks
  An oldy but a goodie—get your heart rate up with this tried-and-true move.
  
  Click here to learn how to do jumping jacks. 
  Push-Up T
  Do it on your toes or do it on your knees; this move works!
  
  Click here to learn how to do a Push-Up T. 
  Related: 20-Minute No-Running Cardio Workout
  Skaters
  Boost your cardio and strengthen your legs with this power move.
  
  Click here to learn how to do skaters.
  Tricep Dips
  The first few seconds will be easy. One minute will produce results!
  
  Click here to learn how to do tricep dips.
  Plank To Chair Squat
  A low-impact version of the burpee-great for upper body, cardio and legs!
  
  Click here to learn how to do a plank to chair squat. 
  Side Lunges
  Stronger legs, glutes and inner-thighs! Alternate right and left for 1 minute.
  
  Click here to learn how to do side lunges.
  Sweeping Scissors
  Time for a tighter tummy! This move will do the trick.
  
  Click here to learn how to do sweeping scissors.
  That’s eight! Now take a 1-2 minute breather, get some water and go through it one more time! Once you master this workout, the next step is to try our GetHealthyU TV SUPER 8 workout. It’s the same format as this one with different exercises, motivating music and someone to workout with and guide you through the moves.
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 4 Treadmill Workouts To Beat Boredom"