"Everything stacks up in the morning. Either you have little ones to feed and dash off to school or you are trying to squeeze in a workout before work. Or you probably have 1,000 things you’d like to do around your house. Maybe all of the above?  You are making coffee, checking your email, packing lunches, taking the dog for a walk, trying to wake up, glance at the morning newspaper and wishing your mornings could go a little smoother. Well, I’m here to help! Imagine a blissful morning when breakfast is ready when you wake up. All it takes is a little prep work the night before to make these breakfasts. Your morning self will thank you.
  Breakfast #1
  Overnight Peanut Butter Honey Chia Oats
  
  Overnight oats are perfect for mornings when you when you want a good filling breakfast that you can prepare the night before. This combination of peanut butter, honey, and chia is one of my favorites.  You can use peanut butter, almond butter, or even powdered peanut butter, PB2.  For mornings when I have an intense workout planned, I usually opt for regular nut butters to keep me from starving during my workout.  But if you want to lighten it up a bit for mornings where you just want to power through some work at your desk, the PB2 is a great option!
  This breakfast tastes like a treat and fills you up. Grab it out of the fridge, add a little honey, grab a spoon and enjoy!
  Breakfast #2
  Cheesy Egg White Veggie Breakfast Muffins
  
  These Cheesy Egg White Veggie Breakfast Muffins are perfect for on-the-go mornings. Grab a few to top a toasted English muffin; no silverware required! I like that these veggie breakfast muffins are low-carb, gluten-free and high-protein, so they’d make a great post-workout snack, too!
  If you want to vary up this recipe, you can use an entire egg and change up the veggies you use. I like to use a tin of six muffin cups and then I have refrigerated breakfast sandwiches all week! All you need to do is warm them up!
  Breakfast #3
  Make a Smoothie and Freeze it
  
  I love having smoothies in the morning because they are healthy, easy and you can leisurely sip and enjoy—even if you are on the go! I freeze them in a plastic, washable cup. Then I put a little press and seal over the top or I use my Grab and Go Blender that has a removable lid. (I also love my Vitamix).  Most smoothies take about an hour to thaw, so take it out when you get in the shower and it may be ready by the time you leave for work or when you get to the office. My favorite one to make is my Green Energy Smoothie with mango, kale, protein powder and almond milk. YUM!
  Get more smoothie recipes by downloading my new e-book, 6-Minute Smoothies!
  You gotta love easy breakfasts! If everyone in the house is covered for breakfast before your head hits the pillow at night, you will have a much smoother morning. You will spend less time zig-zagging around the kitchen and more time enjoying the start of your day. Who doesn’t want that? Oh, and bonus, you are going to feel like your organizational skills rock … cause they do! Happy Mornings!
  READ THIS NEXT: 6 Reasons To Love Oatmeal"