"Ah, back-to-school. While an exciting time of year for many, it can be incredibly stressful and even dreaded for others. The change in routine for the whole family can take some getting used to. So while you worry about bus schedules, changes in your child’s bedtime routine and school supplies, the team at GHU has been busy coming up with quick, easy and nutritious breakfast recipes, not to mention on the go breakfast ideas, including three brand new ones below!
  First of all, these recipes are quick. I’m a mom and I get the morning meltdowns. It’s a skill to get kids out the door with a smile on their face, backpack in tow and breakfast in their stomachs. Oh, and major bonus: all three of these recipes use Silk Cashew Milk which means creaminess is at an all time high. I have been an almond milk lover for a long time so naturally cashew milk intrigued me because cashews themselves are so much more decadent than almonds. I was not disappointed in the cashew milk and I don’t think you will be either. It just makes smoothies and other recipes richer in flavor! Whether you’re looking for low calorie, less sugar, or killer taste that the kids will love, Silk’s brand new Chocolate or Vanilla Cashew Milks are the perfect solution (I love the original too!).
  Check out these three new recipes we dreamed up in our Get Healthy U kitchen:
  Creamy Cashew Banana Smoothie 
  
  Okay, this is just plain yummy. With the addition of cinnamon and coconut, I like to use the Vanilla or Original Cashew Milk for a super decadent chai-like flavor. However, I tried it with the Chocolate Cashew Milk as well and you just really can’t go wrong. Throw all the ingredients in a blender and breakfast is ready in 5 minutes. And if you prefer a smoothie bowl to a smoothie, blend ice with the below ingredients for a thicker consistency; decorate with a dash of cinnamon, unsweetened coconut flakes and cashews.
  Serves: 1
  Total Time: 5 minutes
  1 frozen banana, slightly thawed & cut into chunks
  3/4 cup Silk Vanilla, Chocolate or Original Cashew Milk
  3 tablespoons plain Greek yogurt
  1 tablespoons unsweetened coconut
  ¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
  Cut frozen banana into chunks if not already sliced. Add all ingredients to a blender and blend until smooth.
  Related: 12 Drool-Worthy Smoothie Bowls
  Overnight Chocolate Chia Seed Pudding
  
  You might think this recipe is more fitting for dessert than breakfast, but when it’s this nutritious, it’s a great way to start your day. Plus, the kids will love it! Prep the three-ingredient recipe the night before and you’ll be all set to go for the morning. The chia seeds will thicken the whole mixture into a pudding-like texture, plus, the base is so simple that you can add whatever mix-ins you’d like. I prefer fresh raspberries to put on top in the morning, but you can try anything from unsweetened coconut to granola.
  Serves: 3 small mouths or 2 hungry ones
  Total Time: 5 minutes + overnight refrigeration
  1 ½ cups Silk Chocolate Cashew Milk
  4 tablespoons chia seeds
  Dash of sea salt
  Optional:
  Fresh Raspberries
  Whipped Cream
  Coconut
  Granola
  Chocolate Chips
  Combine three ingredients in a bowl or glass and stir together until well mixed. Cover and refrigerate overnight until thickened. Top with desired mix-ins.
  Related: Pumpkin Pie Chia Seed Pudding
  
  Overnight Pumpkin Spice Oatmeal
  
  Another make-the-night-before recipe, this dreamy oatmeal is anything but run of the mill. Using one of my favorite flavors (PUMPKIN!), your kiddos will think grandma’s pumpkin pie came early this year. The creamy vanilla cashew milk acts as a perfect thickener for the oatmeal with a delightful fall flavor.
  Serves: 2
  Total time: 10 minutes + overnight refrigeration
  1 cup rolled oats
  1 cup Silk Vanilla or Original Cashew Milk
  3 tablespoons pumpkin puree
  2 tablespoons pumpkin yogurt + more for topping (I like Noosa Yoghurt)
  1-2 tablespoons maple syrup
  1 teaspoon vanilla (if using Original Cashew Milk)
  ¼ teaspoon ground ginger
  ¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
  ¼ teaspoon nutmeg
  Dash of ground cloves
  Dash of sea salt
  Optional: 1 tablespoon chia seeds
  Pecans, to top
  Mix all ingredients in a bowl. Cover and refrigerate overnight. In the morning, spoon into glasses and divide mixture with additional pumpkin yogurt or whipped cream between layers. Top with additional pumpkin yogurt, pecans and serve.
  Want to make these recipes? Check out Silk’s website to receive a coupon off your next purchase!
  For more great smoothie recipes, check out our 6-Minute Smoothies e-book!
  READ THIS NEXT: Give Your Health A Jump Start This Fall
  
   
  This conversation is sponsored by Silk. The opinions and text are all mine."