"So you want great arms, but dumbbells aren’t for you? Done! Some of the very best arm workouts are completely equipment-free. After all, what’s more challenging: pushing 10-pound dumbbells or pushing your own bodyweight? Notice, I didn’t specify a number. Who needs that? The bottom line is that great arms can come in practical ways. Here are five great moves that require just YOU!
  Here’s the plan:
  
  Perform each exercises for the number or time listed.
  Rest after you finish them all and go through the series once again.
  For maximal results – try three rounds and feel those arms the next day!
  
  Watch me demonstrate this 5 minute upper body workout in the video below or check out the exercises underneath it for full descriptions and images!
  Walking Push-Up
  
  A) Start with hands on the mat–a fists distance apart from each other– legs long and on toes in a full plank position with your abdominals engaged.
  B) Walk your right hand and foot out to the side and lower to a push up by bending your elbows to the sides and lowering your chest toward the mat, then press up straightening your arms. Bring the right and left foot back to your starting position and repeat on the other side.
  Perform 10 total push-ups (5 per side).
  
  Tricep Dips
  
  A) Start seated with knees bent and feet on the floor. Place hands directly under the shoulders with finger facing your feet and lift hips to a hover.
  B) Bend elbow straight back and use your triceps to press back up.
  Perform 12-15 dips. Make sure to keep abs and glutes tight and lifted.
  Related: 15-Minute Tricep Toner
  Punching
   
  
   
  A) Stand with feet slightly wider than shoulder distance apart and bend knees slightly. Tighten the core to keep your center still.
  B) Punch out one arm at a time at a steady pace.
  Perform rapid, fast punches for 1 minute.
  Three Point Push-Up
   
  
  A) Begin on all fours and then lift your left leg straight behind you.
  B) Hold you left leg straight behind you as you bend your arms to lower yourself into a low push-up position.  Straighten your arms. Repeat.
  Perform 5 with the right leg out and 5 with the left leg out.  Add reps as you get stronger.
  Side Plank
  
  A) Begin lying on the floor with your hand on the floor and stack your shoulder over your hand. Feet are stacked on top on each other.
  B) Lift your body into a side plank position, keeping your abdominals engaged and your feet stacked. Repeat on the other side.
  Hold plank for 30 seconds each side.
  *You don’t necessarily need a yoga mat to do any of these exercises, but I find that it helps with wrist comfort! I’m using my Gaiam Premium Sticky Yoga Mat because when things start getting sweaty, the non-slip surface is key!!
  READ THIS NEXT: 15 Push-Up Variations You’re Going To Want To Try"