"No matter what your plans are for the last weekend of summer, for too many people, it’s an excuse to let go of all of those great eating habits you’ve enjoyed all summer. Simply put, there’s no reason to throw away all of your hard work, hang up that bikini, or discover your swim trunks are tight. You can enjoy all the fun of Labor Day weekend, enjoy healthy eating and maintain your optimal health.
  This year the Labor Day celebrations include a picnic, a beach party and two dinners at terrific San Diego restaurants. Here are five tips my wife and I use to bridge the gap between summer and fall, and ensure our Labor Day celebrations don’t set us back.
  1) We always avoid going to a party or dinner on an empty stomach. Carbohydrate-rich and nutrient packed citrus fruit, berries, almond butter on a piece of banana, or a serving of Greek yogurt do the trick. You might think you want to save up your calories for a party, but that doesn’t work. All you are really doing is showing up to a party with a giant appetite and that’s what can make resolve go out the window.
  2) We love Healthy Dining Finder to help us choose from a range of healthy dining restaurants and review menus hand-picked by registered dieticians before we go into a restaurant. We can decide what we are going to order in advance to assure lean and high-nutrient ingredients. Armed with this info, we don’t get distracted by other offerings and lose our focus on healthy habits. And we always abide by the simple rule, “If we can’t pronounce it; we don’t eat it.” (Check your ingredients for those words you can’t pronounce. And avoid eating those types of processed foods.)
  3) At events such as parties and picnics, we simply replace the rice, potatoes and chips with fruit, veggies, whole grains and salad. If we find the potato salad calling our names, we hear it as a whisper and take a whisper-sized taste. Nobody’s perfect.
  Related: 7 Hunger-Fighting Salad Toppers
  4) Control. That’s our mantra. Portion control and chewing control. If we can, we ask the waiter to serve us half-orders, or at a party fill our plates so we leave enough space to still see the plate. “Chewing control” means eating slowly, with awareness, and savoring the food. The body needs about 20 minutes to feel that sense of fullness, so take time between bites. We also control our moving—we move as much as possible and avoid sitting for too long.
  5) Sure we enjoy a drink, but there are low-calorie cocktails we can comfortably enjoy. Gin and tonic, vodka on the rocks, tequila with lime juice and club soda, white wine spritzer diluted with water or club soda, mojito without the simple syrup or with Splenda syrup, watermelon martini with agave nectar instead of simple syrup. Hefty calorie-laden cocktails will double-cross you by nearly cancelling out that heart pounding, fat-burning workout you enjoyed earlier in the day. And you wouldn’t want to cancel out your hard-earned workout, would you?
  Related: 9 Low-Calorie Cocktails For Healthier Sipping
  Lavish in the last days of summer and start your fall strong with these five healthy eating tricks for a healthier you.
  P.S. Want to quick sweating the small stuff this year? Order my book below!
  Click here to Order
  READ THIS NEXT: 12 Things You Can Do Now For A Healthier Summer"