"Pull out that slow cooker or crockpot and keep it out for good.
  The slow cooker is not just for winter stews and game day appetizers anymore. Use these 52 super delicious, and healthy slow cooker recipes to make meal planning a breeze.
  We have taken out all of the guesswork and armed you with an entire year’s worth of healthy slow cooker recipes offering you a variety of appetizers, meals, and desserts that are healthy, and taste incredible!
  These fabulous recipes are separated by warm weather and cold weather and we also have a variety of gluten-free, dairy-free, and vegetarian options as well!
  Add some diversity to your weekly routine and try a new recipe each week to keep those taste buds happy.
  Most of these tasty entrees require less than 15 minutes of prep work, and as you know these magnificent one pot meals require very little clean up.
  We hope these healthy slow cooker and crockpot recipes change your life for the better freeing you up for more fun and making mealtime stress free.
  Warm Weather
  
  Chipotle Slow Cooker Pork Tenderloin Tacos
  
  
  Set it and forget it with this healthy crock pot pork taco recipe with crunchy carrot slaw and spicy yogurt dressing. This flavorful recipe is filled with rich flavors from the citrus and spices and makes an amazing low-carb meal.
  
   Slow Cooker Coconut Lemon Chicken
  
  
  Need a new chicken recipe to try? This slow cooker coconut lemon chicken takes just 10 minutes of prep work and makes a rich and creamy broth that is so flavorful and decadent it is hard to believe it is dairy and gluten-free. 
  
  Slow Cooker Creamy Coconut Steel Cut Oats
  
  
  Make breakfast a snap and cook this slow cooker creamy coconut steel cut oat recipe overnight, and wake up to a protein packed, dairy-free, warm bowl of tasty steel cut oats. We love this simple recipe topped with fresh berries for a sweet way to start your day.
  
   Sticky Slow Cooker Wings with Pineapple Five Spice Sauce
  
  
  These sticky slow cooker wings with pineapple five spice sauce are sassy, and exploding with seasonings and Asian flavors. This low carb appetizer is also Whole30 compliant!  
  
   Raspberry Chipotle Barbecue Pulled Chicken
  
  
  Wow party goers at your next BBQ with this healthy, gluten-free, raspberry chipotle barbecue pulled chicken recipe that you can make ahead of time and it freezes like a charm.
  
   Crock Pot Chicken Tortilla Soup with Kale
  
  
  This crock pot chicken tortilla soup with kale has a delicious southwestern flavor and takes just 10 minute to toss together for a protein packed soup you can serve with guac and fresh veggies for the perfect fiesta.  
  
   Slow Cooker Roasted Vegetables 
  
  
  Roasted veggies make the perfect side-dish in summer, but sometimes leaves your house feeling like an oven! Keep cooking easy breezy with this simple slow cooker roasted vegetable recipe.  
  
  Crock Pot Low Sugar Maple BBQ Pulled Beef
  
  
  Make a low-carb feast with this crock pot low sugar maple BBQ pulled beef recipe served over a roasted portobello mushroom with a side of our fresh creamy bell pepper slaw. This mouth watering dish has over 15 grams of protein per serving and just 400 calories.
  Related: 9 No-Oven Dinner Recipes To Beat The Heat This Summer
  
  Slow Cooker Italian Chicken with Zucchini Noodles
  
  
  This succulent Italian flavored chicken is tender and juicy! We love this for a protein over salads, in wraps, or even over spiralized zucchini noodles for a low-carb meal.
  
   Slow Cooker Hot Fudge Chocolate Cake
  
  
  Yum! You won’t believe this rich and decadent slow cooker hot fudge chocolate cake takes just 5 minutes to prep and if you use a liner you have no clean up! Try this recipe with vanilla bean ice cream or coconut whipped cream for a healthier dessert.   
  
   Vegetarian Lentil Sloppy Joes
  
  
  We realize most people think of sloppy joes as an un-healthy food, but you will be pleasantly surprised at how amazing these lentil vegetarian sloppy joes are served over a bed of spaghetti squash for a low-carb protein packed meatless dish. 
  
   Slow Cooker BBQ Pork Sandwiches
  
  
  Make your outdoor picnic perfect with our sweet and sassy slow cooker BBQ pork sandwiches slathered in our own low-sugar homemade BBQ sauce. This is a meal everyone will want to sink their teeth into.   
  
   Healthier Slow Cooker Maple Balsamic Beans 
  
  
  The perfect healthy summertime side dish to any meal, these healthier slow cooker maple beans have all the flavor of homemade baked beans and are made with ingredients you can pronounce. This gluten-free side dish is super tasty served warm or cold. 
  
   Slow Cooker Chicken Mole
  
  
  Holy MOH-LAY this slow cooker recipe is amazing! This classic Mexican mole recipe can typically be intimidating, but this slow cooker version is fool proof and makes a rich and flavorful chicken mole.  
  
   Lemon Poppy Seed Cake Bar
  
  
  Yum alert! You have to try this super simple recipe for lemon poppy seed cake bars that you cook in your slow cooker. These moist bars are light, delicious, and packed with 6 grams of protein per serving.
       16. Crockpot Hawaiian Chicken
  
  Get a little taste of the tropics with this easy crockpot Hawaiian chicken recipe. We love this recipe with a side of fresh steamed veggies and rice.
  
   Peaches and Cream Steel Cut Oats
  
  
  Creamy, sweet, and delicious we love this peaches and cream steel cut oat recipe! We make this easy recipe overnight so we can wake up to a hot and delicious dairy free, and gluten free, breakfast that is ready to go.
  
   Slow Cooker Shredded Korean Pork
  
  
  This simple slow cooker shredded Korean pork recipe is so easy and makes the most delicious and tender pulled pork for sandwiches, salads, tacos!
  19. Low Carb Slow Cooker Carrot Cake
  
  No summer party is complete without carrot cake! Try this moist and delicious recipe complete with rich and creamy cream cheese frosting that is low-carb and lower in sugar too!
  
   Slow Cooker Turkey Ranch Taco Chili
  
  
  This slow cooker turkey ranch taco chili recipe is so easy to make you almost feel guilty when your family raves about how good it is! Pour in these easy ingredients, add fresh veggies and voila amazing taco chili! 
  
  Slow Cooker Energy Bars
  
  
  These yummy slow cooker energy bars are filled with quinoa, dried fruit, and almond butter for a high protein energy bar that will fill you up and keep you fueled when you need a little pick me up. 
  
   Slow Cooker Thai Peanut Chicken 
  
  
  Add this slow cooker Thai peanut chicken recipe to you recipes to make list. This easy recipe is so simple and comes out perfectly with plenty of extra Thai peanut sauce that you can drizzle over steamed veggies for the perfect weeknight meal. 
  
   Crock Pot Low Carb Lemon Blueberry Lemon Custard Cake
  
  
  This easy and creamy lemon blueberry lemon custard cake made in the crock pot will be a crowd pleaser at your next get together. This simple recipe is light and delicious for the perfect warm weather healthy dessert. 
  
   Slow Cooker Italian Braised Pork 
  
  
  We tried this slow cooker Italian braised pork over a bed of creamy polenta and thought it had tons of rich flavors. You could also use a pork tenderloin if you prefer a leaner cut of meat, but the pork shoulder cooks down to a tender, rich, and delicious meal. 
  
   Slow Cooker Balsamic Caprese Chicken
  
  
  These stuffed slow cooker balsamic caprese chicken thighs are out of this world! All the delicious flavors of caprese combined in the slow cooker make this amped up caprese stuffed version that you’ll want to make again and again. 
  
  Slow Cooker Sweet and Sour Chicken 
  
  
  This delicious slow cooker sweet and sour chicken recipe has that sweet and sour flavor we all know and love, but is made with healthy gluten-free ingredients and no MSG for a healthier sweet and sour recipe that tastes amazing. 
  Cold Weather
        1. Slow Cooker Salsa Verde Chicken Chili
  
  There is nothing better than coming home to a warm bowl of slow cooked chili on a cold day. This delicious gluten-free recipe for slow cooker salsa verde chicken chili is creamy and delicious, and also dairy free! This easy slow cooker recipe is perfect for game day chili or to just enjoy on a cozy night in.
  
  Slow Cooker Butternut Squash Bean and Barley Stew
  
  
  This satisfying butternut squash bean and barley stew is super tasty and loaded with protein and fiber. This recipe also freezes really well, so it’s the perfect meal to make ahead and freeze some for later. 
  
   Slow Cooker Beef Stew
  
  
  This thick and hearty slow cooker beef stew recipe is loaded with fresh ingredients and takes only 10 minutes to prep for a low-fat stew that’s loaded with rich beefy flavor. 
  
  Slow Cooker Pumpkin Oatmeal Breakfast Bars 
  
  
  These moist and chewy vegan slow cooker pumpkin oatmeal breakfast bars make a delicious sweet and spicy healthy breakfast bar you can take on the go! Make these healthy snacks in the slow cooker for a tasty, gluten-free, portable breakfast that’s only 110 calories!
  Related: 15 High Protein Low Calorie Breakfasts Under 300 Calories
  
   Slow Cooker Cranberry Pork Roast 
  
  
  This healthy slow cooker cranberry pork roast recipe is comfort food at it’s finest! This meal is so easy to prep and you can freeze ahead of time and pop it in the slow cooker  whenever you need for a simply delicious dinner that is ready to go.  
  
   Slow Cooker Low Carb Gluten Free Salisbury Steak 
  
  
  You have got to try this hearty slow cooker, low carb, gluten free salisbury steak recipe with rich mushroom gravy served over a bed of mashed cauliflower. This simple low carb recipe is sure to be a hit with even the pickiest eaters. 
  
   Easy Crock-Pot Cinnamon Pecans
  
  
  We love these easy crock pot cinnamon pecans to snack on or throw in salads around the holiday’s or really any time of year! The slightly sweet and spicy seasoning can also be the perfect sweet treat when you need an afternoon snack. 
  
   Slow Cooker Short Ribs
  
  
  These tender short ribs cooked in a delicious mushroom and tomato ragu are out of this world! We like this savory recipe served over polenta or alongside spiralized potatoes for a completely amazing meal. 
  
   Slow Cooker Chicken Wild Rice Soup
  
  
  It’s true! This creamy slow cooker chicken wild rice soup is under 300 calories per serving, loaded with 20 grams of protein, and has that rich wild rice soup flavor that we all know and love. Enjoy this healthy recipe with zero guilt!
  
   Slow Braised Beef with Carrot Mash
  
  
  This flavorful braised beef with carrot mash is a sophisticated version of old fashioned pot roast, and comes out so succulent and delicious. The leeks and thyme really give this dish added flavor and a wonderful aroma. 
  
   Slow Cooker Cheesy Cauliflower Soup
  
  
  Warm up with this creamy and delicious slow cooker cheesy cauliflower soup recipe.  This low-calorie soup is loaded with fresh veggies and has only 136 calories per serving! 
  
   Slow Cooker Buffalo Chicken
  
  
  This recipe is so tasty and versatile you can use the buffalo chicken in salads, sandwiches, or as a protein power meal post-workout. 
  
   Low Carb Un-Stuffed Cabbage Roll Soup
  
  
  We love this low carb crock pot unstuffed cabbage roll soup recipe! It’s such a snap to make and it’s brimming with that delicious cabbage roll flavor without the extra carbs and calories.  
  
   Slow Cooker Chicken Noodle Soup
  
  
  Ward off that winter cold with this healthy slow cooker chicken noodle soup recipe. This delicious slow cooker recipe uses fresh rosemary and thyme that add a ton of home cooked flavor to this classic recipe. 
  
   Slow Cooker Chocolate Cherry Steel Cut Oats
  
  
  Chocolate for breakfast… Yes please! This slow cooker chocolate cherry steel cut oat recipe makes a super tasty healthy breakfast recipe filled with vitamin A and anti-inflammatory benefits.  
  
   Slow Cooker Turkey Breast
  
  
  Try this slow cooker turkey breast recipe and make your meal prep easy for the week! This tender turkey is perfect for salads, soups, and healthy wraps for easy meal planning. 
  
   Slow Cooker Spaghetti Sauce
  
  
  This rich and delicious slow cooker spaghetti sauce with ground beef and Italian sausage has tons of Italian seasonings and flavor. Using the slow cooker really makes all of those slow cooked flavors come through in this sauce. 
  
   Gingerbread Overnight Oats
  
  Make this overnight oat recipe and wake up to the whole house smelling like freshly baked cookies. This easy, dairy free recipe tastes like a freshly baked cinnamon roll, but only has 155 calories. 
  
   Slow Cooker Chocolate Lava Cake
  
  
  This rich, molten, slow cooker chocolate lava cake is really like a pudding cake. The center is so rich and fudgy, you will be in chocolate heaven. Top this with a dollop of coconut whipped cream for an amazing dairy-free dessert.   
  
   Slow Cooker Healthier Hamburger Helper
  
  
  Don’t let the name fool you! This slow healthier hamburger helper tastes like an amazing modern goulash. This dish has tons of seasoning and flavor, and the pasta is cooked perfectly. This is no meal in a box, this health and delicious recipe tastes incredible.    
  
   Slow Cooker Salsa Chicken and Spinach
  
  
  Easy and delish describes this healthy slow cooker salsa chicken and spinach recipe perfectly! Just five minutes of prep work makes an amazing protein packed Paleo meal that you will rave about, this simple dish has it all.
  22. Crock Pot BBQ Chicken Quinoa
  
  
  
  Save time and keep dinner stress free with this super tasty crock pot BBQ chicken quinoa that is not only gluten free, and full of lean protein, but also packed with a delicious southwestern BBQ flavor.
  
  Slow Cooker Creamy Salsa Dip
  
  
  Whip up this easy three ingredient creamy salsa dip in your slow cooker for a quick game day appetizer that takes 2 minutes to toss together and gives you ample time to prep for your party.  
  
  Slow Cooker Low Carb No-Bean Chili
  
  
  If you are trying to cut carbs this slow cooker, no bean chili is the perfect cold day recipe for you! The hint of cocoa makes a rich chili flavor that really pops.  
  
   Slow Cooker Taco Lentil Soup 
  
  
  Plant based protein is yummy! Try this vegetarian slow cooker taco lentil soup topped with fresh cilantro and jalapeño for a fiber filled soup that has all that delicious taco flavor. 
  
   Slow Cooker Sausage and Vegetable Ratatouille 
  
  
  Add more veggies into your diet with this slow cooker sausage and vegetable ratatouille. This ratatouille has a rainbow of fresh veggies that simmer for hours creating a flavorful red sauce making you want to eat every last drop. 
  We hope you enjoy these 52 healthy slow cooker recipes! Healthy cooking doesn’t have to be complicated as long as you have a slow cooker and some delicious recipes ready to go. If you can’t get enough easy, healthy, recipes that taste amazing check out our recipe page or take a peak at our recipe boards on Pinterest: https://www.pinterest.com/chrisfreytag/
  READ THIS NEXT: 5 Healthy, Easy Sheet-Pan Dinner Recipes"