"If you watch children or grandchildren regularly, you know, playgrounds are just part of the deal. It’s a great way for kids to expend energy, play with their friends and get exercise. But don’t let this time go to waste for you! Get your tush off that bench and get in a workout of your own! This full-body playground workout is the perfect way to tone up, burn calories and build strength. Plus, it’s already built into your day! That’s what we call a win-win. Here are 6 awesome playground exercises for you to try to get a full-body workout!
  1. Pull-Ups
  
  
  Monkey bars are perfect for pull-ups: the ultimate test of upper-body strength. Using three different grips changes the emphasis on your upper-body pulling muscles: An underhand grip emphasizes your biceps and an overhand grip targets your back and rear shoulders. If you need assistance (I do!) bring the ever popular superband with you and hook it up to the monkey bars.
  2. Swings
  
  What’s more fun? Lateral raises and overhead presses or swinging on the monkey bars? Clearly the monkey bars! Simply swinging from one end to the other will work your shoulders, lats, and arm strength. No dumbbells (or boredom) necessary.
  Related: Circuits You Can Do With Your Kids
  3. Decline Push-Ups
  
  Who needs a suspension trainer when you can use a swing to perform decline pushups? Begin in a push-up position with your hands on the ground and your feet on top of the seat of a swing. Bend your elbows and lower your body to the ground and then push back up. Keep your core contracted and back stable.
  4. Ab Tucks
  
  Once again, begin in a pushup position with your hands on the ground and your feet on top of the seat of a swing. Keeping your core tight and your lower back stable, bring your knees toward your chest, contract your abs, and then shoot them back out.
  5. Box Jumps
  
  Find an elevated step or platform to use. Squat/ jump up onto the platform while bending your knees and exploding up in a plyometric move. If you are a beginner, start practicing squats on the ground. This awesome moves target your quads, hamstrings, and glutes!
  6. Split Squats
  
  You could do walking lunges around the playground, or you could do a more effective version that’ll get more work done in less time. The constant tension on the working leg during Bulgarian Split Squats gives this exercise an edge over your everyday lunge. Start with one foot on a park bench, and, keeping your torso contracted and upright, lower yourself down like you’re doing a traditional lunge. You can go as low as your body allows but make sure your front knee doesn’t go past your front foot.
  At this workout, you’ll never look at the playground the same again! Not only is a great place for kids, but it’s a great place for you too!
  Love outdoor workouts? Try our picnic table tone-up workout below!
  READ THIS NEXT: 45 Fun and Healthy Activites To Do With Your Kids This Summer"