"One thing is for sure: people are always looking for ways to tighten and tone their abs. No surprise, many complain about getting down on the floor and banging out a bunch of ab crunches. Well here’s a newsflash: working your core does not require that you lay down on a mat. Why would you want to work your core while standing? Plenty of reasons! Sometimes low back pain prevents us from lying on our backs. Knee pain can also prevent people from getting down to and up from the floor. But above all, sculpting your abdominals while standing engages more muscles than just your core, improves your posture and spinal alignment, and typically burns more calories than exercises that have you laying on your back. So what are you waiting for? Try these six standing ab exercises for a flat stomach today.
  1. Oblique Burner
  
  
  Stand with feet a little wider than hip distance apart, knees bent and hands held behind the back of your head.
  Bend to the right, reaching right hand toward floor behind your leg. Keep spine long.
  Return to center and repeat on the left side.
  Continue switching for desired number of repetitions.
  
  2. Medicine Ball Reverse Lunge Rotation
  
  
  Stand with feet hip-width apart holding ball directly in front of your chest.
  Step right foot behind you, bending both knees into a lunge, while twisting the ball to your left side. Keep both hands on ball and arms long.
  Step back to center, drawing ball back to center.
  Step left foot behind you, bending both knees into a lunge, while twisting the ball to your right side. Keep both hands on ball and arms long.
  Return to start. Perform 20 total lunges (10 per side)
  
  Related: How to Debloat Fast
  3. Medicine Ball High To Low Chop
  
  
  Stand with feet hip-width apart, holding ball in two hands up over right shoulder.
  Bend knees and lower body into squat position as you pull the ball down toward left ankle.
  As you stand back up, reach the ball back up over right shoulder. Repeat for 8-10 repetitions and switch sides.
  
  4. Medicine Ball Overhead Slams
  
  
  Stand with feet hip-width apart, knees slightly bent, and hold the medicine ball with two hands directly overhead.
  Slam the ball to the ground in front of you as hard as you can, engaging your abs, glutes and upper back.
  Catch the ball after one bounce and raise it back overhead. Repeat for desired number of repetitions
  
  5. Pilates Standing Twist
  
  
  Stand with feet hip-width apart, slight bend at the knee, pelvis slightly tucked under and abs pulled in toward spine.
  Hold your arms in a circle directly out in front of your chest, as if you are holding an imaginary beach ball. Take a deep breath in and as you exhale, twist your imaginary ball to the left 3 times moving far, farther, farthest. DO NOT MOVE FROM THE HIPS DOWN. The rotation should come right at your ribcage.
  Return to center, inhale, then twist the “ball” to the right far, farther, farthest, returning to center to inhale. Repeat twisting 3 times in each direction for 10 total repetitions.
  
  6. Standing Bicycle Rotation
  
  
  Stand with feet hip-width apart, knees slightly bent, hands behind head, and left heel lifted.
  Keep low abs pulled in tight and lift left knee up as right shoulder rotates towards knee (try to touch). Lower back to start. Do 12-20 reps. Repeat on opposite side.
  
   
  
  READ THIS NEXT: Are Crunches Really Worth Your Time?"