"Sweet potatoes are one of the five healthiest foods we should eat in the fall, so why do many of us only eat them at Thanksgiving? A medium-size sweet potato contains more than your recommended daily requirement of vitamin A, nearly a third the vitamin C you need, almost 15 percent of your daily dietary fiber intake, and 10 percent of the necessary potassium. The plentiful antioxidants found in sweet potatoes have anti-inflammatory properties, beneficial to those suffering from asthma or arthritis.
  With all those vitamins and good stuff going on inside of a sweet potato, we figured we finally needed a delicious solution to eat more. The answer? Stuff ’em! All you need to do is pop them in the microwave (or roast them) and pack them full with healthy ingredients! Remember, choose organically-grown sweet potatoes so you can eat them with their skin. Here are our 6 favorite ways to stuff your tater!
  1. Chipotle Chicken Stuffed Sweet Potato Skins
  Sweet, spicy, protein-packed, these healthy stuffed sweet potatoes are packed with awesomeness! Plus, they’re filled with vitamin-rich spinach and disease-fighting spices and herbs. Sound a little too healthy? The melted cheddar cheese topping makes it feel like more of a treat.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: JoCooks.com
  2. Baked, Stuffed, and Over-Stuffed Sweet Potatoes
  Refried beans, mushroom quinoa, kale salad, and chipotle sweet potato sauce are the reasons this recipe is called “Over-Stuffed.” But over-stuffed isn’t a bad thing. In fact, over-stuffed is an AH-mazing thing!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: LunchBoxBunch.com
  3. Thai Peanut Stuffed Sweet Potatoes
  A sweet potato dripping in a creamy Thai peanut sauce is a delicious and healthy combo you’ll want to eat for dinner, for lunch as leftovers, and then for dinner again as the leftovers of the leftovers.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: SharedAppetite.com
  4. Spinach and Artichoke Sweet Potato Skins
  Spinach and artichoke dip is one of God’s greatest gifts to any appetizer spread. Now, a lighten-up spinach and artichoke dip stuffed inside of a healthy sweet potato is one of God’s greatest gifts to any dinner table.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: CookieMonsterCooking.com
  5. Baked Sweet Potatoes Stuffed With Feta, Olives, and Sun-Dried Tomatoes
  Everything’s betta with feta, right? Right. Overflowing with Mediterranean flavors (aka lots of creamy feta!), these baked sweet potatoes will make you think twice about covering them in marshmallows and brown sugar ever again.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GourmandeInTheKitchen.com
  6. Honey-Lime Quinoa Stuffed Sweet Potatoes
  Healthy food doesn’t have to be boring. Case in point, these sweet potatoes with a honey-lime flair! They’re vegetarian too, but meat will be the last thing you’ll be craving…you’ll be craving a second stuffed sweet potato!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: CookingClassy.com
   
  READ THIS NEXT: 7 Healthy Thanksgiving Day Swaps"