"Nothing is better than a hot, delicious bowl of soup, especially on a cold winter’s night! It warms the soul and body from the inside out.
  Soup is also a great solution for entertaining. You can make soups in your slow cooker, let the wonderful smells fill up your house and have a wonderful no-fuss meal at the end of the day. Or you can make soup in advance and serve up a warm lunch for your holiday house guests.
  No matter how you like to serve it, we’ve gathered our 7 favorite healthy soup recipes that we know you’re going to love—all tested and approved by my family and team at Get Healthy U.
  Not only are these soups slurp-worthy, they’re also nutrition-packed too! These recipes are easy and quick, but taste like they have been cooking all day.
  “Soup is a lot like a family. Each ingredient enhances the others; each batch has its own characteristics; and it needs time to simmer to reach full flavor.”- Marge Kennedy
  
  You gotta love the all the benefits of soup:
  
  Eating broth-based soups can help you eat fewer calories at a meal.
  Broth-based, vegetarian or soups with lean protein can help aid weight loss. Broth-based soups have a lot of water and relatively few calories per portion. By increasing the water content of your foods and decreasing the fat content, you lower your food’s energy density so you can eat more of it without it impacting your waistline.
  Soups are easy to make with healthy, fresh and low fat ingredients. Increase your intake of veggies by adding some additional fresh or frozen veggies.
  Soups are perfect for experimenting or adding your own personal touches.
  
  1. Low-Cal Southwestern Chicken
  The secret to this rich, creamy, and delicious bowl of goodness is pumpkin! It’s crazy but true.
  This recipe has tons of veggies, beans, and southwestern flare. Garnish with fresh cilantro and sliced avocado, and this is the perfect meal for any cowboy or girl.
  
  2. Hearty Lentil, Ham, & Vegetable 
  I love cooking with lentils! These tasty legumes are high in protein, fiber, and have tons of vitamins!
  This hearty ham and lentil soup is full of fresh vegetables, so it has tons of flavor. This recipe is easily made vegetarian by leaving the ham out.
  
  3. White Chicken Chili 
  White Chicken Chili is one of my all time favorites, but when you order it out, it is typically made with tons of cream and cheese.
  Why does that matter? Lots of extra fat and calories.
  I created this skinny version years ago and it is a hit with everyone because the pureed beans make it creamy and rich like it should be.
  If you use a rotisserie chicken as a short cut like I do, this is a super easy meal and super tasty!
  
  4. Tuscan Tomato 
  I was never a huge fan of tomato soup until I tried a delicious recipe by the Barefoot Contessa.
  The original recipe is high in fat, so with a little tweaking, I lightened that recipe up a bit, added more good stuff, and kept all that rich flavor.
  I like to serve this Tuscan Tomato Soup with a crusty loaf of freshly baked bread.
  
  5. Chile Verde With Pork 
  This Southwestern Chili Verde recipe with pork and tomatillos is so delicious and simple! This chili is full of protein, has tons of flavor, and is the perfect answer for pork leftovers.
  I always have most of these ingredients on hand, so it’s an easy and quick meal to throw together and it tastes like it has been simmering all day long.
  
  6. Beef and Barley 
  Even the pickiest of eaters will love come back for seconds of this hearty soup and since each serving is only 334 calories, you can!
  This Beef and Barley soup is loaded with tons of veggies and has an unbelievably aromatic broth from the herbs. My kids had no idea they were eating kale and mushrooms for years.
  
  7. Split Pea
  Such a comfort on a cold day, these simple ingredients create an amazing meal. I use Canadian bacon in this recipe because it’s low in fat but still has that nice ham flavor.
  Peas are low in fat too, but rich on protein, fiber, and micronutrients.
  
  Now that you have all these tasty recipes to try out, it’s time to cook!
  Plan a party or your next meal with these delicious muffin tin recipes. From Pepperoni Pull Apart Muffins to Enchilada Meatloaf you will be amazed at what you and a muffin tin can create!
  READ THIS NEXT: 11 Simple Slow-Cooker Recipes
  
  
  />
  READ THIS NEXT: 14 Meals In A Muffin Tin"