"Sick of meat and potatoes? Get inspired to cook more and spice up your meals with spiralizing! Say goodbye to boring sides and meals and hello to healthy veggies in every way, shape and form. Using a vegetable spiralizer is fun and really helps you try new veggies like zucchini, celery root and beets that you may otherwise turn your nose up at. Active adults should be eating 4-5 servings of vegetables a day. But don’t worry if you’re falling short of that, we’ve got you covered with seven simple and tasty grain-free recipes that you and your family will all love!
  Here are seven easy spiralized vegetable recipes:
  These spiralized recipes have been taste test approved by my panel of highly esteemed professional tasters…my family, friends and team at Get Healthy U! Most of these scrumptious meals are under 500 calories, and with a little prep take under 30 minutes to make. Honestly, these are all super tasty and got two thumbs up, so get cookin’!
  Tip: I use the Paderno Vegetable Spiralizer. This bad boy has three blades and each do something a little bit different:
  
  
  1.Mediterranean Chicken with Potato Noodles
  Impress your family and friends with this easy and delicious protein packed Mediterranean meal that swaps potatoes noodles for regular noodles!
  
  2. Garlic Shrimp with Yellow Squash Noodles
  This recipe features savory shrimp cooked in garlic and fresh dill on a bed of yellow squash and celery root veggie ribbons. This colorful meal is delicious and comes in at under 450 calories!
  
  3. Cashew Pesto with Zucchini Noodles
  
  This Cashew Pesto with Zucchini Noodles recipe is creamy, rich and healthy! This vegetarian recipe packed with vegetables tastes fresh and delicious. A great way to introduce meatless meals into your weekly rotation!
  
  4. Beef Stroganoff with Potato Noodles
  
  Warm up with this rich and creamy delicious dairy-free dish. A savory and hearty meal with tender beef made in under 30 minutes.
  
  5. Beet Salad with Cucumber, Mint, and Feta
  
  Let your salad stand out from the crowd. This fresh and light recipe with spiralized roasted beets, cucumber, mint and feta cheese is a masterpiece of flavors.
  
  6. Garden Party Vegetable Noodle Salad
  
  Taste the colors of the rainbow with this spiralized vegetable ribbon salad. Layer upon layer of tasty veggies topped with fresh avocado and blue cheese. Such a fun way to eat you veggies. Kids love this ribbon shaped noodles.
  
  7. Butternut Squash Noodles with Chicken and Roasted Red Peppers
  Low-carb and low-cal, butternut squash noodles are an easy swap for healthy family meals. Make this Italian-inspired dish tonight in under 20 minutes.
  
   
  But what about the leftover knobs and nibs?
  To fit your veggies into the spiralizer you will cut off some veggie ends and be left with some spare veggie bits. Remember to waste not! Don’t throw out these delicious morsels, keep in a Tupperware for quick snacks, juicing, or for a puree that you can freeze and add into spaghetti sauce or soups down the road. Those veggie stubs are packed with vitamins and nutrients so don’t let any go to waste.
  
  Hopefully these recipes will get you started. Spiralizing with this nifty and healthy tool is quite addictive. It’s so fun to experiment and come up with fresh and fun ways to eat healthy! The sky is the limit with spiralizing so if your asking yourself, “Will I really use this?” the answer is YES! Kids love the fun shapes and adults are blown away with how pretty these veggies are. You don’t need to be a graduate of Le Cordon Bleu to make an amazing meal that pleases your eyes and stomach.
  Here is a list of veggies and fruit that we recommend spiralizing:
  Zucchini
  Summer squash
  Butternut squash
  Pear
  Eggplant
  Large carrots
  Potato (yellow, red, or white)
  Sweet potato
  Cucumber
  Celeriac (celery root)
  Beet
  Apple
  READ THIS NEXT: 7 Delicious Soup Recipes"