"Anxiety is a condition that many suffer from daily. Thankfully, natural remedies can help change the way you feel. One very important natural remedy that helps ease anxiety is your diet. It all starts in your gut! Food makes your body feel good, as well as your mind. When you are anxious, your blood sugar drops at a high rate, and one way to bring it back up is to fill your body with the key nutrients it needs.
  A healthy diet is one key to reducing your anxiety. If you find new habits for eating well, your stress can decrease. A whole-food diet is an easy way to assure a more tranquil mind in the comfort of your own home. If reducing your anxiety is something that you yearn for, then rethink your comfort foods and practice clean eating with these five anxiety-reducing foods.
  Oatmeal
  
  Oatmeal contains complex carbohydrates that boost your serotonin levels. Serotonin influences your mood, and when you have low levels of serotonin, your mood decreases. Oatmeal in the morning will help you begin your day the right way. It keeps you feeling full and soothes your body and mind.
  Recipe To Try: Banana Berry Baked Oatmeal
  Turkey
  
  Turkey is a tryptophan-rich food. When you consume foods containing tryptophan, it increases the amount of serotonin in your brain, which can lead to feeling calm. You know the post-Thanksgiving dinner feeling where you want to nap as soon as possible? That is the calming effect of the tryptophan transmitting into your body. So do not go cold turkey and eat more of it!
  Recipe To Try: Turkey Zucchini Pizza Lasagna
  Dark Chocolate
  
  You know when you come home from a long day and all you’re craving is chocolate? Well, there is reason for that. Dark chocolate reduces stress hormones and contains the highest amount of antioxidants. Of course, you need to consume a healthy amount, but it is proven to be beneficial. Look for chocolate that has at least 72% cocoa in it. It contains more benefits and less sugar.
  Recipe To Try: Chewy Dark Chocolate Cherry Protein Granola Bars
  Blueberries
  
  Another food that contains a healthy amount of antioxidants is the tiny blueberry. When your body is put in a stressful state, it needs the proper nutrients to help fight it off. Blueberries are power-packed with vitamin C and antioxidants to do the trick. A handful a day can help keep your stress away.
  Recipe To Try: Wild Blueberry Chia Power Smoothie
  Almonds
  
  Zinc is another nutrient to naturally balance your mood. Almonds consist of high levels of zinc and fill your body with energy. When you’re exhausted, your body turns the fatigue into anxiety and stress. Keep a bag of almonds in your purse when you are on-the-go and your busy day will not end in a panic.
  Recipe To Try: Honey Almond Granola
  Whole Wheat Bread
  
  You know when you eat something processed, and you feel the initial surge of energy and then suddenly your blood sugar and body strength drops? This is because processed foods give your body a very rapid breakdown of the little nutrients it contains. Whole wheat bread and other whole grains take longer to break down, which keep you content and body satisfied for longer periods of time. Carbohydrates get a bad rep, but they actually increase serotonin in the brain.
  Recipe To Try: Spinach and Feta Stuffed Turkey Burgers
  Asparagus
  
  Low folic acid levels decrease your mood, so why not fix this issue and eat more asparagus! Asparagus is saturated with it, and even if it is used on the side for dinner, it gives your body about 2/3 of your daily value of folic acid.
  Recipe To Try: Sesame Garlic Roasted Asparagus 
  Remember along with eating a healthy diet, exercise is also another natural remedy for reducing stress in your life!
  READ THIS NEXT: 10 Ways To Overcome Overwhelm"