"Keeping up with a fitness routine is hard enough at home when you have access to your equipment, workout clothes, and regular routine. So how can you expect to stay on track with your workouts when you’re traveling, sometimes for weeks at a time? Whether you’re a business traveler who’s constantly flying in and out of major cities or you plan on vacationing with your family to a tropical resort, you can still maintain a fitness routine with these seven tips.
  1. Include Your Workout In Your Itinerary
  Before you do anything else, you have to prioritize working out while on vacation. Determine when you will work out before you leave by taking stock of your daily schedule. If you’re taking a business trip, glance at your itinerary and determine when you’ll be able to fit in your workouts ahead of time. If it’s a trip for fun, tell your friends or family know that you plan on getting in a few workouts during your stay. It will let them know your plans and help keep you accountable.
  2. Pack Like A Fitness Pro
  Set yourself up for fitness success by packing more strategically than normal. After you’ve packed all your outfits, take out one pair of dress shoes and replace it with a pair of tennis shoes. It will encourage you to work out and act as a not-so-subtle reminder when you open your suitcase upon arrival: you need to make time to move!
  3. Scope Out Fitness Classes In The Area
  
  One of the benefits of visiting a different city is exploring different attractions, and yes—fitness classes! Before you leave, scope out fitness classes near your hotel—try a SoulCycle class or a different type of yoga—whatever it is, it will feel good to mix it up and explore what other cities have to offer. You can also call ahead to your hotel to see what the gym accommodations are within the hotel, if you prefer!
  Related: How To Exercise On A Business Trip
  4. Workout In Your Hotel Room
  If you feel extra pressed for time on your vacation, you don’t even need to leave your suite to get your sweat on these days. With workout streaming services you can stream your favorite workouts—whether they’re strength training, kickboxing, HIIT-workouts, or yoga—in the comfort of your own room. There are plenty of bodyweight-only workouts that won’t even require dumbbells or other equipment.
  5. Remember The 2 Day Rule
  I have followed the 2-Day rule for years, and it has served me well. I tell my fitness classes the same thing: Try to never go more than 2 days in a row without working out. This rule keeps you accountable even when you’re on the go, so you don’t let your workout plan lag and find it harder to get back into the swing of things after a lapse.
  6. Stay Motivated With A Fitness Tracker
  Don’t take off your FitBit when you hit the road and you’re more likely to notice if you haven’t gotten your 10,000 steps in! Wearing a fitness tracker on your vacation will act as a reminder to get moving if you’ve been too sedentary, and is a great way to see how many steps you’ve taken when exploring a new city!
  7. Factor In Recovery
  Traveling can be exciting and adventurous, but it can also cause back and neck pain, stiff joints and muscles—especially if you add in working out. Sitting through long flights, sleeping on a different mattress, or even sitting too much at an all-day conference can cause your muscles to tense up. Pack an on-the-go massager to relieve sore muscles and alleviate pain while on vacation. We like the Wahl Deep Tissue Percussion Massager because its high-penetration massage attacks muscle pain that hides below the surface, and it’s powerful enough to treat large muscle groups or pin point problem areas, like a stiff neck from a long flight.
  
   
  You don’t have to sacrifice your fitness routine just because you’re traveling; in fact, you can factor in healthy choices every day of your vacation—from what you eat, to your workouts, to your recovery—with these seven tips.
  Want to save this list? #PinItForLater!
  
  READ THIS NEXT: The Hotel Room Tabata Workout"