"Fall is officially here and with it comes crisp air, cozy sweaters, and yes—the return of fall TV. But just because your favorite shows are returning to the screen doesn’t give you an excuse to be sedentary all season.
  Stay active this fall with these seven kick-butt fall TV workouts you can do while watching your favorite shows.
  Whether you’re a This Is Us fan or a die-hard Grey’s Anatomy-devotee, follow along with the corresponding workout to burn some calories while you binge watch.
  
  
  
  Bonus points for recruiting a pal to do the workout with you!
  How To Do These TV Workouts
  Each of these workouts is modeled after a TV show. They contain four different rules for four different exercises you perform when certain actions takes place.
  There are also instructions for what to do during commercial breaks. There’s no need to stop moving while you’re waiting for the next scene that will merit a new exercise—feel free to walk or jog in place in between these exercises if you like.
  Yes, for your overall health you should be getting a minimum of 150 minutes of cardio exercise per week and adding in at least 2-3 strength sessions, but staying fit is also about daily movement.
  How can you move more throughout the day to keep your metabolism revved, your mood boosted, and your muscles active?
  That’s what these simple workouts aim to do: incorporate more movement into an activity that’s typically sedentary. Now grab that remote and get moving!
  This Is Us
  We can’t contain our excitement for Jack, Rebecca, Randall, Kate, Kevin to come back into our lives again this season. And while we could gladly spend each episode glued to the couch watching the drama unfold, it might be better to get moving with this full-throttle workout that will have you running the gamut of emotions and exercises at the same time.
  
  
  
  
  
  The Voice
  Ok, so The Voice can go on for a while. You could sit and eat chips for two hours as chairs turn around, or you could get moving with this fun workout that will have you doing squat jumps whenever Adam and Blake bicker (sorry in advance, legs) and burpees whenever there are waterworks.
  
  
  
  
  
  Related: A Low Impact, High-Results Workout You Can do At Home
  Grey’s Anatomy
  Currently in its 16th season, this show always brings the drama. While medical emergencies and romances unfold, you’ll work your abs with Russian Twists and tone your tri’s with tricep dips. Win-win.
  
  
  
  
  
  How To Get Away with Murder
  For a show so wild that anything’s possible, get ready to start sweating with this HTGAWM-themed workout. (How’s that for an acronym?)
  
  
  
  
  
  Shark Tank
  The inventors and innovators with million-dollar deals on the line are definitely sweating on this show, and so will you—but in a much less stressful way. Get ready to do mountain climbers, jumping jacks and more as the next big idea gets approved by the sharks.
  
  
  
  
  
  Real Housewives
  Your favorite guilty pleasure just became a great way to multi-task because this full-throttle workout will leave no muscle un-worked. (Especially when you have to do 10 squats every time someone takes a drink.) You’ll be feeling it the next day!
  
  
  
  
  
  Football Games
  Most of us watch at least some football each fall, and for a lot of us, it’s a weekly event. So, whether you’re an NFL junkie, a die-hard college fan, or really just in it for the game day fare, don’t let these 3+ hours go to waste. Get in on the action with this football-themed sweat session.
  
  
  
  
  
  Want to save all 7 of these fall TV workouts for later? Here you go!
  
  
  
  
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 7 Hacks To Improve Your Home Workouts"