"So you want a nice tight booty and firm thighs to show the world, but you don’t necessarily want the world watching while you work to get them? Then it’s time for a lower body workout at home that gets results! Perhaps you’ve watched people at the gym or on YouTube using barbells, squat racks and heavy weights. That can be intimidating and the truth is, you don’t have to use all that equipment to shape and firm your backside.
  Instead, this at home lower body workout is designed to give you the benefits of leaner legs and a tighter tush without all the time, money and self-consciousness that comes with going to the gym. The exercises below are going to strengthen and tone those lower body muscles while also giving you amazing cardiovascular results by getting your heart pumping and your sweat dripping! Even better? No equipment needed! That’s right, a no-equipment lower body workout at home. Boom!
  What Muscles Will This Workout Target?
  
  This workout zeros in on your glutes, quadriceps, hamstrings, inner and outer thighs and calves. The exercises are varied and designed to give you a well-rounded and complete lower body workout. Each strength move (i.e. squats, lunges, bridges etc.) is combined with a power move (split jumps, squat jumps, etc.), so you’re definitely going to feel your legs the next day – big time!
  Will I Burn Fat?
  Yes! The strength work alone is going to help rev your metabolism, but since each strength move is also followed by a power move, it elevates your heart rate into your cardio zone to burn extra fat and calories which is necessary to see a better shape in your butt and legs. One thing we know about toning and sculpting is that shaping the muscles alone will not do the trick if you have extra body fat covering those muscles. Adding some good cardio exercise (like you’ll get in the power moves here) and cleaning up your eating will increase the likelihood that you’ll see results and see them more quickly!
  Will This Make My Butt & Thighs Bigger?
  Stronger? Yes! Bigger? It depends on where you begin. If you are coming at this program with bird legs -i.e. skinny legs or a flat butt, then the answer is likely yes. The exercises provided are going to help you lift and shape your rear end as well as tone and strengthen your thighs. On the other hand if you are coming to this program with a little weight to lose and extra fat covering those beautiful muscles, you are more likely to see the fat fade away and the shape of the legs and booty take place. Think less about size and more about strength. Strong is the new sexy!
  How Long Will It Take To See A Difference?
  Again, this really depends on where you are coming from. If you are brand new to exercise you will likely see noticeable results in a couple weeks. If you already exercise on a regular basis it might take a bit more time. Remember, good things take time. When it comes to weight loss or body shaping, there is a general rule that the longer it takes, the longer it lasts. When you do things the proper way: healthy eating, strength training and cardio exercise, it might seem to take longer than crazy crash diets and intense workout programs, but it lasts because it is a more realistic way to live and easier to stick with for the long term.
  What If I Have Bad Knees?
  
  You’re not alone! Many people come to exercise with sore knees, injuries or chronic conditions involving their knees. Much will depend on which of these categories you fit into. However, the first thing to remember when it comes to knee pain is that it is very frequently a result of weak leg muscles. According to the Mayo Clinic, weak leg muscles is one of the leading causes of knee pain. Essentially that means this is the perfect workout for you! In order to have stronger knees, you also need stronger quads, glutes and hamstrings. These are exactly the muscles addressed in this workout.
  A second cause of knee pain noted by the Mayo clinic is being overweight. The heavier you are, the more pressure on your knees and the more trouble you will experience with knee pain. So again, this workout might be just the thing to help you shed a few pounds and start feeling better. Before trying the exercises below, read about our 5 Exercise Modifications For Bad Knees and use the information provided to help you modify your lower body workouts. On the other hand, if your knee pain is too much for the workout below, check out our 12-Minute Hiit Workout For Bad Knees or 10 Lower Body Exercises to Combat Knee Pain. Keep in mind that low impact will be your friend! Do everything low impact until your knees are feeling better and legs are getting stronger. A great option for you might be our Get Healthy U TV LIFT Low Impact Lower Body Workout. Guided by trainers Jodi Sussner and Chris Freytag, you’ll be guided through an amazing lower body workout that has low impact on your joints but tons of positive impact on your muscles!
  Related: 7 Exercises to Prevent Runners Knee
  The No-Equipment, At-Home Butt & Thigh Workout
  Here it is! The workout that will help tone, shape and sculpt your butt and thighs with both strength and power moves for maximum impact! Here’s how it works: In each pair of exercises, you will begin with a strength move then follow with 30 seconds of a power move that keeps the same muscles engaged but adds a power push for heart rate and fat burn! When it comes to burning fat and calories, interval training is your ticket to success! After your 30 second push, take 30 seconds to catch your breath, then move on to the next pair of exercises. Make sure to stretch at the end! The entire workout should take you about 15 minutes.
  
  BASIC SQUAT – 12 reps
  SQUAT JUMPS   – 30 seconds
  Rest 30 seconds 
  BACKWARD LUNGE – 12 reps
  SPLIT JUMPS – 30 seconds
  Rest 30 seconds
  PLIE SQUAT – 12 reps
  PLIE LEG LIFT   – 30 seconds
  Rest 30 seconds
  ALTERNATING FORWARD LUNGES – 12 reps
  WALKING LUNGE – 30 seconds
  Rest 30 seconds
  SIDE LUNGE – 12 reps
  SKATERS – 30 seconds
  Rest 30 seconds
  SINGLE LEG HAMSTRING – 12 reps per leg
  POWER SKIPS – 30 seconds
  Rest 30 seconds and be sure to stretch out.
  Looking for another at home lower body workout with that same heart rate boost? Check out Get Healthy U TV and try our 30 Minute Lower Body HIIT.
  READ THIS NEXT: Your Upper Body At Home Workout"