"Whether you’ve never worked out a day in your life and are looking to start exercising or you’re in a fitness rut and want to try something new, we’re here to help you embrace being a beginner and find the best type of workout for you. Working out does NOT have to be dreadful, so if you’re slogging away on the treadmill thinking you want to fling yourself off it, we’re here to give you permission to find an entirely different way of moving your body that feels fun and empowering to you.
  If you’ve been too intimidated to try a spin class or confused by what the deal with HIIT (High Intensity Interval Training) is, we’re here to help clear up the myths, give you simple tips to get started, and remind you that yes, you can tackle whatever new workout you want. Click on any of the links below to jump to the beginner’s guide that you’re most interested in.
  Beginner’s Guides:
  
  Strength Training
  Running
  Pilates
  Swimming
  HIIT
  Stand-Up Paddleboarding
  TRX
  CrossFit
  Spin Class
  Barre
  
  Pick a few, start with baby steps and dive in.  There is no time like the present—forge ahead and give something active a try.
  And, by the way, let’s cut to the chase. None of us are motivated to do what we consider to be a waste of time. Every so often, it’s good to remind yourself of the benefits of exercise so your commitment to exercise doesn’t wane. Here’s our list of just some of the top benefits of regular exercise.
  
  
  Back to Basics
  
  
  
  Click here to get the Guide!The Beginner’s Guide To Strength Training
  Need help on how to strength train? Read this beginner’s guide to strength training to learn how to build muscle, gain strength and increase confidence!
  
  Click here to get the Guide!The Beginner’s Guide To Becoming A Runner
  Just because you tried jogging once and it was painful doesn’t mean you shouldn’t take it up! Becoming a runner can be incredibly addicting! Try these tips!
  
  Click here to get the Guide!The Pilates Workout for Beginners
  New to Pilates or an old pro? This workout is for you. Strengthen your core and back, flatten the tummy, and balance your body’s strength and flexibility.
  
  Click here for the guide!The Beginner’s Guide to Swimming
  If you want swimming to be your total body workout, here’s what you need to know before you get started.For The Adventurous
  
  
  Click here to get your Guide!The Beginner’s Guide To HIIT 
  Everything you have ever wanted to know about (HIIT) High Intensity Interval Training.
  
  Click here to get the Guide!The Beginner’s Guide to Stand-Up Paddleboarding
  If you’re new to stand-up paddleboarding—SUP for short—welcome! Our Beginner’s Guide will teach you about the gear, the technique and everything in between.
  
  Click here for the guide!The Beginner’s Guide to TRX 
  If you are new to TRX or would love to try TRX, our beginner’s guide to TRX is the perfect place to start. This workout guide provides a total core workout!Your First Group Class
  
  
  Click here to get your Guide!The Beginner’s Guide to CrossFit
  CrossFit confused or CrossFit curious? The popular fitness craze is everywhere. Here’s what’s you need to know to before you head to your first class.
  
  Click here to get the Guide!The Beginner’s Guide To Your First Spin Class
  Intimated by spin? Don’t be! Before you head to your first spin class, find out exactly what you need to know about the class from our Beginner’s Guide.
  
  Click here to get the Guide!The Beginner’s Guide To Barre
  Have you always wanted to try a barre class but you didn’t know what to expect? Get your questions answered with our Beginner’s Guide to Barre Class.While you’re at it, be sure to download our 28-Day Beginner’s Workout Calendar on Get Healthy U TV. It lists a day-by-day plan to get back in shape and start seeing new, real results with full-length workouts from Get Healthy U TV. (Become a Get Healthy U TV member to do these workouts any time, anywhere by streaming them on any device!) Click the calendar below to be taken to your download and try our beginner’s program on Get Healthy U TV.
  
  
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 17 Excuses Why You Skip Exercise And What To Do About It"