"When you think of grocery stores that specialize in healthy food products, you might think of Trader Joe’s or Whole Foods, but have you ever considered a big box store, like Costco? You’re going to love this huge roundup of healthy Costco foods!
  It seems like everyone has a strong opinion on big box stores – either you love ‘em or hate ‘em. And those on each side are usually pretty passionate about it.
  In health circles specifically, we’ve often heard that if you want to stick to your healthy eating plan, then you shouldn’t shop at places like Costco or Sam’s Club. Here at Get Healthy U, we disagree and actually love the deals and products we can find at our local Costco. Here’s why:
  
  When it comes to clean eating, we have our favorite ingredients: sweet potatoes, brown rice, quinoa, spinach, Greek yogurt etc. Buy these things in bulk, and they’ll last you way longer! No need to buy them every few days at your local stop.
  According to a recent study, Costco actually sells MORE organic offerings than Whole Foods. And not only do we benefit from this, but it encourages more farmers to participate in organic practices.
  People say that it costs too much to eat healthfully. Buying in bulk combats this. You can pay close to $7 for a tiny container of almonds at your local grocer, but buy it at Costco and you’ll pay $15.00 for a huge bag that will last you for months.
  
  Keep in mind, having more food at home can be temptation to overeat. However, if you exercise portion control and measure food out ahead of time rather than eating from the bag or box, then taking advantage of bulk offerings can definitely help your wallet.
  Related: Top 25 Finds at Trader Joe’s
  From dinner shortcuts to ingredient staples, Costco has your back when it comes to eating healthy. Check out these best healthy Costco food items to buy in bulk:
  Costco Dairy, Milk, and Almond Milk
  Organic Unsweetened Almond Milk
  
  Whether you’re dairy free or not, almond milk is delicious and good for you too. Plus we love that it comes in 6 jugs so that we can store them in our pantry and then just grab a fresh one whenever we need it.
  Organic Milk
  
  Few people go to the grocery store without getting their weekly staple: milk. Buy three half gallons at once at Costco and you won’t have to worry about walking to the back of the store next time.
  Kirkland Organic Greek Yogurt
  
  Chris herself eats Greek yogurt every day whether it’s a quick snack in the office or an ice cream substitute after dinner with chocolate chips and honey. But we also love to use it in our baking recipes for an extra moist consistency. This 3-pound jug is perfect for any Greek yogurt lover.
  Organic Salted Butter/Unsalted Butter
  
  Whether you want to pay for organic or not, you can find butter in bulk for all your cooking and baking needs. We keep ours in the freezer and they last forever! And yes, butter can be part of a clean diet!
  Costco Nut Butters and Healthy Oils
  Almond Butter/Peanut Butter/Peanut Butter Powder/Cashew Butter
  
  What would we do without nut butter? Whether you’re a peanut butter fan or prefer almond butter, these oversized jugs will last you long past the normal variety. Plus, if you prefer the powdered peanut butter to reduce the oil content, you can get that too! (You can get a 2-pack—28 oz. each—of PB for $9.99!)
  Kirkland Almond Butter
  
  Almond butter is rich, healthy, and delicious. We love this nut butter as a way to add healthy fats into your diet to keep you satiated. The Kirkland brand of Almond Butter is certified gluten-free. 
  Kirkland Extra Virgin Olive Oil
  
  Olive oil is a staple healthy oil in our kitchen. We love buying this in bulk so we always have it on hand. Kirkland’s Extra Virgin Olive Oil comes in a 1 Liter size. 
  Organic Virgin Coconut Oil
  
  Coconut oil is one of our absolute favorites so when we saw this 84-ounce jar, we were pumped! We love using coconut oil in place of regular cooking oil or butter for certain recipes as well as when we’re baking. But not only that, coconut oil can be used as a skin moisturizer and so much more!
  Costco Healthy Drinks
  Organic Coconut Water
  
  We all know the importance of hydration but sometimes it’s hard to drink enough water. For you coconut water lovers out there, you’re not going find anything better than this pack of 12.
  Organic Orange Cranberry Naked Juice
  
  We love making our own smoothies and juices, but sometimes a good Naked juice is all we need. Now, rather than paying $5 for a small little bottle, we can buy 64 fl oz. worth one to last us all week. Or alternatively, you can get a variety pack of different flavors in mini bottles.
  Kombucha
  
  Kirkland Organic Kombucha is as good as the other brands and the ginger lemonade flavor is yummy.  Kombucha can be expensive at your regular grocery stores, ringing up at close to $4 per bottle.  Buy the Kirkland 8 pack and it’s close to ½ the price per bottle!  
  Coffee
  
  Costco has a huge selection of beans.  Whatever is your favorite brand, they probably have it.  I am a Starbucks lover and I get the 2-pound bag of fresh roast beans which again saves me a substantial amount from buying 2 one-pound bags at the local Starbucks. Plus there is a coffee bean grinder on the way out of the store near the customer service counter.  If you need your beans ground, do it on the way out of the store.
  Costco Healthy Snacks
  Simple Mills Almond Flour Crackers
  
  These almond flour crackers are naturally gluten-free! Plus, they taste delicious with hummus or cheese.  On the healthier side with fewer ingredients.  A family favorite for my gluten-free family members and relatives.
  Skinny Pop
  
  Sometimes a popcorn craving hits – and that’s ok! I am a popcorn lover. It’s my go-to munchy snack and a better choice than lots of chips filled with weird ingredients.  Skinny Pop satisfies that crunch craving and just a few ingredients – organic popcorn, organic sunflower oils, and sea salt. 
  Off the Beaten Path Veggie Crisps
  Veggies crisps are another tasty snack. No, these can not replace your daily vegetables but they satisfy the munchies or make a nice crunchy side with a salad or sandwich. An alternative to potato chips, we love the Off the Beaten Path Veggie Crisps at Costco. 
  Terra Sweet Potato Chips
  
  These chips are my favorite. I am a sweet potato lover and these are my go-to chip. My kids love them too. Again, I’m not suggesting that chips be a big part of your daily diet, but when you want something crunchy, these Terra brand sweet potato chips are a must-have for your pantry. 
  Kirkland Organic Apple Sauce 
  
  Apple sauce comes in handy when your sweet tooth kicks in. Costco’s Kirkland brand of apple sauce is organic and has simple, clean ingredients. 
  Costco Grains and Rice
  Organic Golden Flax Seed
  
  Flax seed is a staple in our morning smoothies so buying this in bulk is a no brainer. Make sure to store it in the refrigerator or freezer though as you won’t be able to go through it as quickly and it can spoil.
  Organic Quinoa
  
  From salads to Buddha bowls to dinner sides, we use quinoa on the regular. So this 4.5-pound bag is clearly showing up in our cupboards.
  Seeds of Change Brown & Red Rice Packets
  
  These brown and red rice packets are perfect when you need something to fill you up but don’t have time to wait for the rice to cook. Add protein and veggies for a well-rounded meal that comes together in a flash.
  Nature’s Intent Organic Chia Seeds
  
  Another smoothie staple, this large bag of chia seeds is great for incorporating into all sorts of recipes. From chia puddings to salad dressings to baked goods, you may work through this bag faster than you think. Chia seeds are a great source of Omega 3s so feel good about sprinkling on your yogurt, salad, cereal, etc.
  Organic Quinoa and Kale 
  
  Another shortcut dinner option or side is this organic quinoa and kale pack. Tossed with garlic, sea salt and olive oil, it’s great as is or spruced up with some spices, additional veggies and protein.
  2-Minute Grains
  
  This awesome find combines wheat berries, quinoa, farro and barley in little packets that make for a delicious side or base for a Buddha bowl. All it takes it 2 minutes in the microwave!
  Costco Nuts and Seeds
  
  Costco is a huge money saver for nuts and seeds. A big bag of Costco almonds, pistachios, or pumpkin seeds is half the price literally of the regular grocery store prices! Nuts stay good for a long time so it’s worth it.  
  Plus, nuts are a great source of healthy fat, protein and they deliver a yummy crunch.  Almonds, pistachios, and pumpkin seeds are staples in my house but Costco also has other nuts too!
  Costco Produce
  Certified Organic Apples
  
  Of course, you can choose to buy non-organic or organic apples, but since they’re on the dirty dozen list, we like to go for the organic. Buying in bulk helps with the price per apple especially if you and your family eat an apple a day!
  Organic Blackberries/Raspberries
  
  Another dirty dozen list member, organic berries are awesome to buy from Costco. You get about double the amount which we love and the price is hard to beat too.
  Columbia Organic Three Berry Blend
  
  You can also get excellent bags of frozen fruit from Costco like Columbia Organic Three Berry Blend. There are tons of options, blueberries, mangos, and others. Frozen fruit is as healthy as fresh and lasts longer. I use this for my smoothies every morning! 
  Avocados
  
  Now you can eat an avocado every day! Buy a bag of these from Costco and you’ll be able to use them in whatever your heart desires all week: salsa, toasts, sandwiches, salads, guacamole and more.
  Organic Baby Spinach/Power Greens
  
  For salads or juicing, buying spinach, kale and chard in bulk is a no-brainer.
  Organic Baby Carrots
  
  Obsessed with carrots? Well you probably won’t be able to find a larger bag of them than this 5-pound behemoth.
  Organic Broccoli 
  
  Stir-frys, in a veggie tray, covered in cheese – however you eat your broccoli, you can now get it in mass proportions.
  Love Beets Organic Cooked Beets
  
  Don’t love scrubbing, peeling and cooking beets? Us either. But now we don’t have to since Love Beets has done all the work for us with these perfectly cooked organic beets ready to throw in salads and soups alike.
  Sweet Potatoes
  
  You can’t beat a bag of sweet potatoes for its versatility. Grab a bag of Costco sweet potatoes and meal prep for the week! They last a long time so it’s worth the savings. Costco also has regular potatoes, red potatoes, and a few other varieties.  I chop them and roast them, bake them, mash them.  Potatoes make every meal better!  
  Costco Dips and Sauces
  Basha Hommus
  
  Basha Hommus from Costco is delicious. (Some Costco stores sell different brands but most often they have chosen a well-known healthy brand.) Plus, a 36-ounce tub of hummus is exactly what we’re talking about. While we do love to make our own hummus, when the week doesn’t permit it, Costco has us covered when it comes to our addiction. And remember beans are full of protein.  Hummus is usually a part of my daily diet – I dip my veggies in it. 
  Organic Wholly Guacamole Minis
  
  The perfect snack for on the go, these guacamole minis are something you want to have around. And since you get 20 mini cups, you should be able to get a few yourself before your family steals them all.
  Kirkland Organic Chunky Guacamole
  
  Costco also sells large containers of guacamole in addition to the small individual size containers. Perfect for patio gatherings with tequila soda, chips, and guac!   
  Basil Pesto
  
  We love this Basil Pesto! So delicious and only uses real ingredients as if we were making it ourselves. We add it to sandwiches, zucchini noodles and salad dressings for a delicious pop.
  Bitchin Sauce
  
  Bitchin’ Sauce is an extremely popular dip that also happens to be vegan, gluten-free, and dairy-free. It’s made of a special blend of spices and doesn’t have any MSG, artificial sugars or gums. We think this one lives up to the Hype! Use it as a dip or a marinade according to their website.
  Costco Soups and Salads
  Kale Superfood Salad
  
  This pre-mixed salad blends is one of our favorites. It’s filled with tons of superfoods like broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, kale, pumpkin seeds and more. Perfect for lunch and dinner, you’ll be so glad it’s a large bag.
  Organic Chopped Barley & Vegetable Soup
  
  These vegetarian and dairy free soups are crucial for a no-plan dinner. Filled with tons of vegetables and filling barley, its delicious and good for you.
  Amy’s Organic Lentil Soups
  
  For a quick lunch or dinner, opening a can of Amy’s Lentil Soup could not be easier. Keep these on hand for nights where you get home starving with no time to make dinner but still want a healthy meal.
  Costco Meat
  Organic Boneless, Skinless Chicken Breasts & Thighs
  
  Chicken is a staple in our diets; filling, full of protein, but still lean. You can get a 3-pack bundle to keep in your freezer or fridge depending how quickly you work through it.
  Frozen Boneless Skinless Chicken Breasts 
  
  With no antibiotics, hormones or steroids, these chicken breasts are perfect to keep in the freezer and thaw when you need them. And it’s one of the best deals we’ve seen around!
  Organic Oven Roasted Turkey Breast
  
  Organic deli meat at the local grocery store is so expensive for such a little amount, which is why we prefer this oven roasted turkey breast. Perfect for sandwiches, in lettuce wraps, on crackers or with cheese.
  All Natural Ground Turkey
  
  Love substituting ground turkey in your tacos or other ground beef recipes? Then buy a 3 pack which typically weighs about 4 pounds and store in the fridge or freezer depending how quickly you can work through it.
  Costco Eggs
  Kirkland Organic Eggs
  
  If a dozen eggs just don’t cut it in your household, then you’ll definitely want to take advantage of the 2-dozen package of organic brown eggs at Costco. 
  Kirkland Organic Hard Boiled Eggs
  
  Also, are you a hard boiled egg lover? While it really isn’t too hard to make them yourself and we’ve even got a special trick, if you’re pressed for time, you can buy 24 cage-free organic hard boiled eggs from Costco in a cinch. I was hesitant at first because I usually boil my own, but they taste delicious and are not injected with sodium.  Totally worth the buy since my family eats lots of them. 
  We hope you’re a Costco believer now that we’ve given you the map to find all the healthy Costco foods.
  Now – what are your favorite Costco finds? Comment below! And don’t forget to download your healthy Costco shopping list.
   
  READ THIS NEXT: Trader Joes vs. Target: A Grocery Comparison"