"Ab workouts aren’t limited to athletes and the under-30 crowd. As a matter of fact, seniors rank as one of the top groups who should be doing core strengthening exercises on a regular basis, because targeting your midsection with exercises that sculpt and strengthen is key for staying healthy and active. 
  Fact is, exercise and everyday living get harder as you age. And if you want to keep up your running or tennis habit, play with your grandkids, and generally be able to do things for yourself, you have to keep your body in good shape. A weak core can get in the way of those activities. Adding core strengthening exercises for seniors into your weekly routine is a great way to make this happen.
  That said, rushing through some sit-ups won’t do the trick. You need a variety of core strengthening exercises to ensure you hit every inch of your midsection.
  To help you get that core strength back, this article covers the most effective core exercises for seniors, along with recommendations for incorporating them into your week. But first, we’ll review some key facts about core strength, and the many benefits of core strengthening exercises for older adults.  
  What’s Your “Core”?
  
  
  
  Photo Credit: http://www.jointventurespt.com/
  The “core” is more than just the visible ab muscles you see on display in popular fitness magazines. It’s made up of all the muscles in your trunk, which assist in nearly every movement you make. Key core muscles include:
  Glutes: The meaty muscle in your buttocks is called the gluteus maximus, and it helps propel you from seated to standing, power up a flight of stairs, and walk around the block. You also have the gluteus medius, which is a smaller muscle on either side of your buttocks that helps keep you steady while you stand, walk, or jog.
  Rectus abdominis: The rectus abdominis is the main “six-pack” muscle that runs from your rib cage to your pubic bone. It primarily works to flex, or bend your trunk.
  Obliques: The obliques are made up of a pair of external oblique muscles — one on each side of your trunk — and a pair of internal oblique muscles, which are located just below the external obliques. Together, these muscles twist and bend your trunk from side to side.
  Transverse abdominis: The transverse abdominis is your deepest ab muscle. It helps with breathing and works to stabilize your pelvis and low back.
  You also have a handful of lesser-known core muscles that support your spine and help you perform daily activities. These include the multifidus and erector spinae, which bend and straighten the spine and keep it stable during activity, as well as the psoas, which connect your legs to your trunk and help bend your hips. These core exercises for seniors will target all of these muscle groups.
  Related: How To Get In Shape Over 50
  Benefits of Core Strength for Older Adults
  A few key benefits of core exercises for seniors include:
  Improves Posture and Reduces Back Pain
  Whether you’re moving or sitting still, your core muscles are in charge of keeping you upright. When these muscles are weak, we tend to slouch, causing back discomfort and pain. 
  Improving your core strength will keep your trunk upright and slouching at a minimum, which eases back pain over time.  
  Helps With Everyday Activities
  Strong core abdominal muscles make it easier to do the daily activities many of us take for granted, like walking up and down stairs, bending down to tie your shoes, and getting out of bed in the morning. If you enjoy sports, core strength will help you swing a golf club, run a 5K, and swim laps more easily.
  Improves Balance and Coordination
  Many of your core abdominal muscles work to keep you stable while sitting, standing, and walking. When these muscles are strong and healthy, they’re better able to do this all-important job, which allows you to maintain balance and coordination without much thought.   
  The 8 Best Core Exercises for Seniors
  The following moves are some of the top core exercises for older adults. Aim to do these exercises daily to keep your core muscles strong and healthy. Perform each move for 5-10 reps (per side) and you’ll get a great core workout in less than 10 minutes. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  1. Seated Forward Roll-Ups
  
  
  
  
  Seated forward rollups develop great functional core strength.
  
  
  
  Here’s how to perform a seated forward roll-up:
  Sit in a chair with your legs extended, heels on the floor, and feet flexed towards your face. Extend your arms in front of you. Keep an upright posture; don’t slouch or lean back in the chair.Begin curling your chin to your chest. Exhale as you roll the entire torso up and over, keeping your legs straight, abs engaged. Reach down towards the toes.Once you can’t reach any further, inhale as you begin to roll back up to the starting position, one vertebrae at a time.Repeat moving slowly. Avoid using momentum; try to use your abdominals to lift and lower.
  Muscle Groups Targeted: Rectus Abdominis, Transverse Abdominis
  2. Seated Side Bends
  
  
  
  Here’s how to perform seated side bends:
  Sit with knees bent and feet flat on the ground. Bend your right arm to bring your right hand to the right side of your head. Allow your left arm to hang at your side. Keep an upright posture; don’t slouch or lean back in the chair.Inhale. As you exhale, bend gently at the waist to lower your left arm toward the floor. Keep your chest open and pull your right elbow back to feel a stretch in your right side.Inhale to return to starting position. Repeat.
  Muscle Groups Targeted: Internal and External Oblique Abdominal Muscles
  3. Seated Leg Lifts
  
  
  
  Here’s how to perform a seated leg lift:
  Sit in a chair. Your left knee should be bent with your left foot flat on the ground, and your right leg extended. Keep an upright posture; don’t slouch or lean back in the chair.Engage your core to raise your right leg. Lift your leg as high as you can without letting your back collapse. Hold briefly before returning your foot to the floor.
  Abdominal Muscles Targeted: Rectus Abdominis, Transverse Abdominis, Internal and External Obliques
  4. Seated Leg Taps
  
  
  
  Here’s how to perform seated leg taps:
  Sit in a chair with knees bent and feet flat on the ground. Keep an upright posture; don’t slouch or lean back in the chair.Hold onto the bottom of your seat for support. Engage your abdominals and extend both legs out in front of you, tapping the floor with both feet.Reset by pulling your legs under your chair, allowing your feet to rest on the floor. When you’re ready, repeat.
  Muscle Groups Targeted: Rectus Abdominis, Transverse Abdominis
  5. Seated Half Roll-Backs
  
  
  
  Here’s how to perform a seated half roll-back:
  Sit in a chair with knees bent and feet flat on the ground. Lift your arms in front of your chest to create a circle. Keep an upright posture; don’t slouch or lean back in the chair.Keeping your feet on the floor and your arms joined in a circle in front of your chest, begin to round your back. As you round your back, think about scooping your abdominals.Once you can’t go any further, engage your abs as you slowly roll back up to the starting position.
  Muscle Groups Targeted: Rectus Abdominis, Transverse Abdominis
  6. Forearm Planks
  
  
  
  Here’s how to perform a forearm plank:
  Lie face-down on the floor with your forearms on the ground. Your elbows should be directly under your shoulders and hands flat on the ground, elbow-width apart.Engage your core to prepare. Then, press down through your forearms to raise your body off the floor until you’re supported by your forearms and toes.Keep your body in a straight line from your head down to your feet. Pull your navel into your spine and squeeze your glutes to keep your hips from dropping toward the floor.Hold for 30 seconds or 1 minute if you’re more advanced.
  Modifications: Drop down to your knees if you can’t keep your hips in line with your shoulders, or you feel pressure in your lower back.
  Muscle Groups Targeted: Rectus Abdominis, Transverse Abdominis
  7. Superman
  
  
  
  Here’s how to perform a superman:
  Lie on your stomach with your legs long. Extend your arms overhead. Draw your abdominals up and away from the ground, and pull your shoulders down away from your ears.Engage your abs, back muscles, and glutes to lift your arms and legs simultaneously off the ground. Keep your gaze on the floor.Release back to the starting position with control.
  Muscle Groups Targeted: Obliques, Lower Back, Erector Spinae, Glutes
  8. Glute Bridges
  
  
  
  Here’s how to perform a glute bridge:
  Lie on your back with knees bent and feet flat on the floor, hip-width apart.Engage your abs and squeeze your glutes to lift your hips to a bridge.Hold briefly and return your glutes to the floor with control.
  Muscle Groups Targeted: Glutes, Hamstrings, Lower Back, Rectus Abdominis, Transverse Abdominis
  How Long does it Take to Strengthen Your Core?
  Core strengthening should be a part of your weekly exercise routine. Make sure to aim for multiple times a week for overall health. A strong core takes time to build but will give you balance and stability for those daily activities you love to do.
  Read This Next: 11 Strength Training Moves for Women Over 50
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Best Core Exercises for Seniors"