"Your cleaning products don’t need to smell like nasty chemicals in order to do a good job. In fact, did you know that cleaning products that are also clean for the environment exist? It’s true! And you don’t need to spend a ton of money on them either. We’ve compiled a list of our absolute FAVORITE all natural cleaning products that get the job done. Take a look at our top natural cleaning products to stock up on in your cabinet!
  
  Eighteen all-natural cleaning products you should stock up on!!
  Laundry
  1. Puracy Natural Laundry Detergent- $16.14
  Puracy is a brand formulated by a team of doctors for individuals who suffer from skin allergies or sensitivities. This detergent has quadrupled plant-based enzymes that help remove stains, eliminate odors, and leave your clothes naturally soft. One 24 ounce bottle will wash approximately 96 loads, and the pump top prevents spillage and eliminates the need to measure. Of the detergents listed, Puracy is the most concentrated, and reduces waste by more than 80%.
  2. Charlie’s Soap- $17.09
  Charlie’s Soap is an environmentally friendly, biodegradable, and hypoallergenic detergent. With the mantra, “less is more”, it only takes 1 tablespoon of this detergent powder to clean an entire load of laundry. Talk about a great bang for your buck!!
  3. Vaska Exceptional Fabric Softener- $8.54
  Vaska wants you to “rethink clean, rethink soft” and you can do so by using their exceptional fabric softener that is 100% biodegradable, uses no optical brighteners, and is hypoallergenic. Vaska uses natural ingredients from herbs that provide essential cleaning agents that help effectively remove stains and odor from your clothes! Vaska is labeled with a Design for the Environment (DfE) sticker, meaning it’s gone through an intensive EPA review. In addition, Vaska was awarded the Clean Choice Award in Clean Eating Magazine two years in a row (2014, 2015).
  4. Teemour Wool Dryer Balls- $9.66 for pack of 6
  These organic, natural, wool dryer balls keep your clothes soft and static free! Each ball is completely hand made and since there are no synthetic fillers, these dryer balls will not annoyingly fall apart during the dry cycle. Pro tip: add a few drops of your favorite essential oils to the wool balls to have your clothes smelling fresh when finished drying!
  Pro Tip:
  Want to whiten your clothes without the use of bleach? Combine the following in a gallon container:
  
        ¾ cup 3% hydrogen peroxide
        ¾ cup baking soda
        ¼ cup lemon juice
        ½ gallon water 
  
  Shake it up and store in a cool, dark place. Add a few drops of essential oils for a fragrant smelling solution.
  Related: 56 Household Uses For Baking Soda
  Floors
  5. Puracy Natural Carpet and Upholstery Shampoo- $14.99
  Puracy carpet and upholstery shampoo has an industry leading concentrated formula that reduces plastic, water, and energy waste by more than 75%. With clinical grade ingredients and a fast acting formula, the Puracy shampoo easily removes stains and odors. It can be used with a carpet-cleaning machine or by hand.
  6. Nature’s Miracle Stain and Odor Remover Carpet Shampoo- $10.71
  This is another all natural carpet shampoo that uses a professional strength formula to get out those nasty old stains!! Unlike the previous carpet shampoo, Nature’s Miracle Carpet Shampoo needs a water-based rug-cleaning machine in order to be used.
  7. Method (hardwood floor cleaner) – $10.18
  Method’s wood floor cleaner is a GREAT natural option to use when it comes time to shining that beautiful hardwood. The non-wax formula used makes it non-toxic and biodegradable!! The smell will have you cleaning your floors more often than usual.  
  8. Better Life Natural Hardwood Floor cleaner- $19.77
  Any Shark Tank ™ fans out there?! If so, you probably witnessed the bidding war among the sharks over this brand! The brand jokes that their products are so clean you could spray it right in your mouth; it’s true. The cleaning products were designed with the idea of little kids constantly touching things, and then putting their fingers in their mouths. Not only are Better Life products extremely clean, they are effective as well, which is why the hardwood floor cleaner made our list!
  Pro Tip:
   DIY your own stain remover!! Combine the following in a glass spray bottle:
  
     1 cup water
     ¼ cups castile soap, and
     10-15 drops of lemon essential oils
  
  Allow the solution to soak on the stain, then wash as usual.
  Makeup
  9. Johnson’s Baby Oil- $4.92
  Most of us are probably familiar with Johnson products. But what you might not know is that their baby oil works perfect as a makeup brush cleaner!!! No need to spend tons of money on brush cleaner from your favorite beauty store because this stuff does the trick! Psst… grab the mat below for a perfect makeup brush cleaning system!
  10. Sigma Beauty Express Brush Cleaning Mat- $21.80
  With this mat, you can ensure that your brushes are being thoroughly cleaned. It has seven different textures to help rid your brushes of built up product, and by doing so will extend your brush’s lifespan. We think this is a MUST have! Clean makeup products are essential for keeping your skin happy and healthy!
  Pro Tip:
  Don’t throw away your smashed makeup powders! Gather all the broken pieces in the original container, and crush the remaining pieces. Add a few drops of rubbing alcohol and let it completely soak in. With a spoon, rub and smooth your makeup to its original form.
  Glass Cleaner
  11. Method Glass Cleaner- $12.92
  Guess what? You can still get that gleaming, so-clean-you-can-see-your-reflection, shine to your glass surfaces without the use of smelly ammonia. Method proves this claim with their powergreen® technology formulated glass and surface cleaner. This bottle in particular has a peppermint aroma, accented with eucalyptus. Did cleaning just get relaxing? 
  12. The Laundress- $11.99
  Like Method™, The Laundress brand wants to bring a nontoxic glass cleaning product to the market that doesn’t include harsh-smelling chemicals. For those of you who don’t care for fragrant cleaning products, this is the product for you! The Laundress formulated an unscented glass cleaner with a concentration of active ingredients for a higher performance. Just a few spritzes will have your mirrors looking good as new!
  13. Seventh Generation- $13.94 (2 pack)
  This brand, as a whole, is an extremely environmentally friendly brand. They even has a Come Clean campaign that supports safe solutions for their consumers, and encourages the industry to “come clean” about cleaning product labels. That’s a win in our book!! The Seventh Generation™ glass cleaner checks all the boxes: It’s kosher, plant-based, gluten-free, includes no harsh fumes, and is a USDA certified biobased product.
  14. Rebel Green Sparkling Glass Cleaner- $21.99 (pack of 4)
  Want your glass to shine like the top of the Chrysler building? And smell like a refreshing day at the spa? Try the Rebel Green Sparkling Glass Cleaner on your next cleaning day!! This plant-based product is made from renewable resources and fragranced with pure essential oils for a squeaky clean, streak-free finish.
  Pro Tip:
  For a streak-free job, use newspaper (instead of a washcloth), spray the solution at the top and work your way down. This ensures there aren’t any drips that go unnoticed on already-cleaned areas.
  All Purpose
  15. Sal Suds Biodegradable Cleaner- $19.35
  Just as the name suggests, this brand made our list for its eco-friendly qualities. This surface cleaner is made with natural fir needle and spruce essential oils, so no use of synthetic dyes or preservatives were used in the making of it! Sal Sud’s surface cleaner is organic and vegan certified by the USDA National Organic Program and Vegan Action.
  16. Puracy All Natural Purpose Cleaner- $13.29
  Puracy has made our list for the third time with their natural multi-surface cleaner. With a nod from The New York Times, we think this product is an absolute must have on hand. There are 250 applications per 25 ounce bottle, and one spray goes a long way. 
  17. Cladrea All Purpose Cleanser- $14.87
  We loved the aesthetic of the Cladrea All Purpose Cleanser bottles, and the cleaning powers lived up to the design!! This all purpose cleaner works on tile, wood floors, natural stone, and cupboards. For every day cleaning, it’s recommended to dilute one cup of Cladrea All Purpose Cleaner per gallon of water.
  18. Mrs. Meyers- $23.94 (pack of 6)
  This is a personal favorite for us in the office, as we use it for cleaning our desks and counters! It also hits close to home, invented here in the Midwest (Iowa).  Like most of the products listed in this blog, Mrs. Meyers has all the right qualities of being a natural, safe cleaning product. We can attest to the cleaning capabilities and amazing aroma.
  Pro Tip:
  For a homemade, vinegar based, all-purpose cleaner combine the following in a 16-ounce spray bottle:
  
     ½ lemon, juiced
     1 cup water
     1 cup white vinegar, distilled
     12-15 drops of your favorite essential oil (we suggest lavender or peppermint!)
  
  Spray area and wipe with a damp cloth to ensure the castile soap doesn’t leave any residue.
  READ THIS NEXT: 5 Ways To De-Clutter Your Home & Reduce Stress"