"You may not love cooler air, back-to-school duties, or hanging up your swimsuit and beach towel for the season, but one thing you might be on board with? The heap of posh pink sneakers brands are churning out for fall. With the trends of rose gold and pink permeating just about every aspect of our closets this season, it’s no surprise that these perfectly chic colors would make their way to our footwear as well. Whether you want running shoes, cross-trainers, or kicks to wear everyday, here are seven pink sneakers perfect for fall—all available on Amazon.
  1. Adidas Originals Women’s Flashbacks
  
  Add some retro flair to your early morning jogs with these throwback Adidas shoes in a fresh, coral-y pink. With a serrated rubber outsole for added traction and breathable mesh, you’ll be cool and comfortable all day long. Adidas Original’s Women’s Flashbacks: $84.99
  2.Nike Women’s Air Max
  
  
  Combining fashion and practicality, these shoes can take you from laps around the track to last-minute happy hour plans. Not only are they pretty in pink, but the full-length Max Air unit gives you tons of impact absorption and offers a lighter-than-air feel for running. Nike Women’s Air Max: $269.97
  3.Nike Air Huarache Women’s Trainers 
  The Huarache originally debuted in 1991, and they’ve made a big comeback in this updated blush pink. Specifically designed to stretch with your foot, these kicks are as comfortable as they are durable—making them great for cross-training. Nike Air Huarache Women’s Trainers: $119.50 (price may vary on size/color availability)
  Related: How To Find The Best Shoe For Any Workout 
  4. Ted Baker Women’s Kulei 
  
  Sure, these rose gold sneaks aren’t made for marathons, but they’re an easy way to upgrade a pair of yoga pants and slouchy sweater for days when your athleisure is more about style than actually working out. (Hey, we’ve all been there…) Ted Baker Women’s Kulei: $100.99
  5. Nike Women’s Air Max Thea Running Shoes
  
  Who said diamonds were a girl’s best friend? We’re pretty sure these top-notch shoes in bright melon have that title now. Designed for maximum shock absorption and comfort, they’ll help you tackle your long-distance runs like a pro. Nike Women’s Air Max Thea: $79.99
  6. Adidas Originals Women’s Tubular Shadow
  
  Biking, hiking, jogging, or headed to a HIIT class? These sporty sneakers can handle it all. With a minimalist design and an EVA midsole for comfort, these breathable, versatile shoes are a must-buy for any athletic endeavor. Adidas Orginals Women’s Tubular Shadow: $100.00 (price may vary on size/color availability). 
  7. Nike Women’s Flex Fury Running Shoe
  
  These peachy-keen kicks are perfect for runners who prefer a more lightweight shoe, or fitness junkies looking for a light, flexible cross-trainer. Nike Women’s Flex Fury Running Shoe: $80.00 (price may vary on size/color availability).
  READ THIS NEXT: The Best Home Gym Equipment Under $40"