"Shoulder pain can be both irritating and very disruptive to your every-day life. If you have ever injured or hurt your shoulder you know what I’m talking about. Lifting grocery bags, carrying a purse or even just trying to open a door can be impossible. In addition, some shoulder pain can be severe enough to interrupt your sleep or force you to miss work. According to the Mayo Clinic, shoulder pain may arise from the shoulder joint itself or from any of the many surrounding muscles, ligaments or tendons. Shoulder pain that comes from the joint usually worsens with activities or movement of your arm or shoulder.
  The Shoulder
  The shoulder is a ball and socket joint that connects your arm to your body. The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and tendons that help stabilize the shoulder. Any time you move your shoulder you are using your rotator cuff. The shoulder is remarkable in its movement pattern because this ball and socket joint can move in more directions than other places on your body. For instance, your knee can flex and bend forward and back, while the shoulder can make circular motions and reach in cross patterns. On the other hand, this is also what makes the shoulder vulnerable to injury. Due to all of the soft-tissue in the shoulder, you are more likely to do damage or suffer injuries from repetitive poor movement patters. Tendonitis, strains, tears, bursitis – these are all common issues that arise in shoulders.
  Related: 7 Moves To Sculpt Your Back and Shoulders
  Common Shoulder Injuries
  Let’s take a look at these common shoulder injuries, the accompanying symptoms, and what the usual course of treatment is. Following these descriptions you’ll find some recommended exercises used in shoulder rehab to help regain your range of motion and build back strength once your shoulder is healed.
  Tendonitis
  Shoulder tendonitis is an inflammation injury to the shoulder. Tendonitis comes from repeated micro-trauma to the rotator cuff rather than from one specific injury.
  Symptoms: 
  
  Pain if you lift your arm straight or lay on your shoulder
  Shoulder pain when arm is at shoulder height
  A “clicking” sound during the movement of the shoulder
  
  Treatment:
  
  At first symptoms, rest, ice and take anti-inflammatories
  After the initial resting, you’ll want to regain your range of motion with physical therapy or specific exercises. (See below)
  
  Bursitis
  A bursa is a tiny fluid-filled sac that functions as a gliding disc to reduce friction between tissues on the body. Bursitis is inflammation of the shoulder bursa, which generally occurs from either injury or strain to the shoulder. If you lift things overhead or make repetitive movements like throwing a baseball over and over, you might be a candidate for bursitis.
  Symptoms: The symptoms of shoulder bursitis are similar to shoulder tendonitis. In fact, these two injuries often occur at the same time.
  
  Localized pain, swelling or tenderness- usually the outside of the shoulder
  Pain that gradually increases over weeks
  Pain with motion of the affected area
  Pain when you lay on the affected area
  
  Treatment:
  
  At first symptoms, rest, ice and take anti-inflammatories
  Specific exercises and/or physical therapy
  Releasing fluid from the bursa and/or injecting the area with Cortisone may be something a doctor suggests if symptoms persist
  
  Sprain/Strain
  A sprained ankle probably seems more common to most people, but you can strain or sprain your shoulder just as easily. In this injury, the ligaments that support and stabilize the shoulder are stretched or torn. These injuries can be minimal (grade 1) to very serious (grade 6) or anywhere in between. Most people experience minor strains – grade 1 or 2. Sprains come from an injury or accident whereas strains come from overuse or repetitive movement such as carrying a heavy purse or bag over the same shoulder or performing a large number of push-ups incorrectly.
  Symptoms: The symptoms of shoulder sprains and strains are similar:
  Sprains:
  
  Feeling a “pop” in the area followed by swelling and bruising
  Stiffness or instability near the affected area
  Warmth or redness of the affected area
  
  Strains
  
  Muscle spasm, swelling or cramping
  Sharp pain at the site of the injury
  
  Treatment:
  
  At first symptoms rest, ice and take anti-inflammatories
  Immobilize the shoulder with a sling or wrap
  Therapists may use ultra sound or other therapies to reduce swelling and inflammation as well as suggest exercises once the healing has taken place.
  
  Exercises For Shoulder Pain
  Early detection is the key to preventing serious shoulder injuries. Phase 1 of treatment almost always involves RICE: Rest, Ice, Compression and Elevation. Sometimes using a sling or wrap to keep your shoulder immobilized helps move the healing process along. Once the initial days or weeks help pain subside and swelling go down, you can move on to some shoulder exercises that might help you get your range of motion back and help the full healing process take place.
  PLEASE NOTE: These exercises are not prescriptions specifically designed for you. Please see your doctor or physical therapist and find your specific injury and prescription for healing. The following exercises are a small sample of many that are available and your doctor or therapist will know which ones are right for you.
  Pendulum Swing
  
  Equipment: None
  Repetitions: 2 sets of 10; 5-6 days a week
  Prepare your shoulder and warm it up with this move. Lean over a countertop or table placing the non-injured hand on the table for support. Let your other arm hang freely at your side then gently begin to swing it forward and back., side to side and in a circular motion.
  Door Jam Stretch
  
  Equipment: None
  Repetitions: 5; 5-6 days a week
  Stand in an open doorway and grip the hands to the side of the doorway slightly below shoulder height. Put one foot in front and one behind, then lean slightly forward until you feel a light stretch this is start position. Now, with your spine straight, shift your weight into your toes until you feel a stretch in your shoulders. Do not overstretch. Pause for a moemtn, then roll back. Repeat 5 times.
  Chair Shoulder Press-Ups
  
  Equipment: None
  Repetitions: 5; 5-6 days a week
  Sit upright in a chair that has arms. Start by placing your arms on the chair arms and lengthen your spine to sit as tall as possible with your feet on the floor. Use you arms to lift your body slightly off the chair while simultaneously pulling your shoulder blades down behind you. Hold for 5 seconds, then lower back to seated. Repeat 5 times.
  Shoulder Band Pull
  
  Equipment: Elastic Band or Tubing
  Repetitions: 5-8 per arm; 4-5 days a week
  Attach elastic tubing to a doorknob at home. Face the door holding the tube with your hand. Gently pull the elastic tubing toward your body with your elbow bent keeping your arms close to your ribs. Hold for 5 counts, then slowly release. Keep your shoulder down and don’t “scrunch”. Repeat 5 times; switch arms. (good to work both sides!)
  Side-Lying External Rotation
  
  Equipment: light dumbbells
  Repetitions: 8-10 per arm, 4-5 days a week
  Lie on a firm, flat surface on the side of your healthy arm with a pillow or blanket under your head. Place the hand of your healthy arm under your head and hold dumbbell in hand of injured arm, palm down and elbow bent 90 degrees. Raise dumbbell slowly until arm is at a vertical position (a pillow underneath this arm can be helpful for stability), then slowly lower down. (Switch sides if desired – it is good to work both shoulders)
  Side-Lying Internal Rotation
  
  Equipment: light dumbbells (1-2 pounds) or soup cans
  Repetitions: 8-10, 4-5 days a week
  Lie on a firm, flat surface on the side of your injured arm with a pillow or blanket under your head. Hold injured arm against your side, elbow bent at a 90 degree angle and holding dumbbell. Raise dumbbell slowly until arm is at a vertical position, then slowly lower down. (Switch sides if desired – it is good to work both shoulders)
  Dumbbell Reverse Fly
  
  Equipment: light dumbbells (1-2 pounds) or soup cans
  Repetitions: 8-10, 4-5 days a week.
  Hold 3-5 pound dumbbells and stand with feet hip width apart, hinge forward slightly from the hips keeping abs tight. Slowly raise arms extending them away from the body without shrugging your shoulders. Let elbows lead the way with hands to follow. Release down slowly. Repeat 10 times.
  Wall Push-Ups
  
  Equipment: None
  Repetitions: 8-10; 4-5 days a week
  Stand facing a wall with your hands on the wall shoulder-width apart. Slowly perform a push-up, lowering chest toward wall slowly, then pressing back. Elbows should angle behind you, not point straight out to the side.
  READ THIS NEXT: 9 Ways To Prevent Joint Pain During Exercise"