"Hey, winter! Listen up. We’ve got good health to harness and workouts to win. We aren’t going to let you cramp our calorie-burning style. Beat the snow, the freezing temps, and whatever else this brutal season throws your way by gearing up in the best cold-weather clothing guaranteed to keep you cute and cozy during your outdoor workouts. Cute and cozy? Better luck next year, winter.
  CRZ Yoga Athletic Long Sleeve
  
  Winter offers two options. You can either live the hermit lifestyle wrapped in a blanket on the couch, or you can gear up and get sweaty. We vote for the second! This CRZ Yoga Athletic Top is the perfect bottom layer to stay warm while running, skating, or snowshoeing. The long sleeve is sweat wicking and stretchy so its the perfect top to being your layering!
  
  Kahtoola NANOspikes Traction System
  
  Slippery conditions can put the kibosh on winter running in a nanosecond. That’s why you need Kahtoola NANOspikes for your next outdoor workout. These nifty spikes attach to your favorite shoes and help prevent spills when running, hiking, or walking on icy or snowy terrain.
  Fleece headband
  
  When temps dip, don’t leave your head hanging. Cover up your ears with this perfect Ultra-lightweight fleece head band. These headbands are great because you can still wear a high pony and be warm and comfortable at the same time!
  Women’s Full Zip Hoodie – CRZ Yoga
  
  I am all about cute and comfy – but lately I have been trying to workout clothing that’s affordable and doesn’t break the bank. I think I have found the secret ticket and I am happiest about the Women’s Full Zip Hoodie – CRZ Yoga! The jacket is made with sweat wicking fabric that is brushed to retain heat and when your cheeks get rosy, you can pull up the cowl neck to get extra coverage.Plus, it comes in multiple colors!
  The North Face Women’s Agave Full Zip Fleece Jacket
  
  This jacket is great for runs because it is form fitting, and it’s great for winter because you can add layer’s under. The full-zip is perfect for easy removal when you start to warm-up if needed as well!
  Nike Dry Element Running Top
  
  The Dri-FIT fabric on this half-zip is designed to keep you dry and comfortable all with excellent breathability. The half-zip mock neck makes it easy to cool down or warm up in outdoor weather. Yep, this is your new winter training go-to.
   
  Fan Vince Thermal Running & Cycling Gloves
  
  Winter shouldn’t stop you from rocking out on runs. These Fan Vince Winter Gloves are touch-screen compatible, which means you can do all the swiping and scrolling that your ears desire. Besides winning the iPhone game, the gloves are also lined with soft thermal cotton, protecting your hands’ heat from icy air and cool wind.
  The North Face Aconcagua Down Vest
  
  For those states with a little less winter than most, this North Face quilted vest is the perfect amount of toasty for chilly outdoor workouts. We’re obsessed with the Spiced Coral color, but you can take your pick of seven colors to suit your style.
  Warm yet? Go workout already!"