"I was asked to participate in the #LetsFaceIt campaign, sponsored by Studio 35 at Walgreens. Although I have been compensated, all opinions are my own.
  We all pick and choose how and where to spend our money. Yeah, I’m willing to spend money on a good pair of shoes or a fabulous bottle of wine, but one area I have learned I don’t need to spend a lot of money is skin care. After years of trying expensive creams and lotions that weren’t making any personal differences for me, I settled on a few quality products that are cost friendly and are working for my skin. A lot of people ask me about what skincare products I use as I age and turning 50 was a turning point for my skin. What I have found to be most important is keeping my skin clean and hydrated on the inside and outside.  People often are surprised when I share my high quality, drug store favorites.  You see I don’t think a single professional facial every 3 months is the answer or that applying one magical product at the end of the night can combat all the stress and havoc that you put your skin through on a daily basis. That’s why I like to carry a few staples with me and make sure I’m doing the very best for my skin all day long. Thus, I’ve put together “a day in the life of my skin” for you below so you can see what I do for my skin from sunrise to sunset. I believe it’s your skincare regime and daily habits that are really most important.
  See my 6 habits below or watch my short video!
  Related: 9 Winter Skincare SolutionStay hydrated
  
  
  
  Staying hydrated is one of the best things you can do for your skin; and the lack thereof can lead to dry, flaky skin. For so many health reasons, I start my day with a big glass of lemon water. It’s not only hydrating for your skin, but is also alkalizing to the body. I fill up my morning cup, squeeze just a bit of lemon in it and drink up! It comes even before my morning coffee and I know I’m doing a good thing for my body.
  2. Sweat it off
  
  Want to naturally detoxify your skin? Then you need to get your sweat on! Working out is one of the best cleansers for your skin; in fact, when you sweat, your pores open and release the body of toxins and buildup that can leads to zits and blemishes. To keep my skin clean, I also know it’s important to wash my face off after a workout. Some days I’m able to jump in the shower after a workout, but on others, I need to run errand or run to the office and I don’t always have time for the full work up. That’s why I always carry the Studio 35 Walgreens brand of cleansing wipes in my bag. They are hypoallergenic, dermatologist tested and have several varieties to meet individual needs. I love the green tea and cucumber exfoliating wipes as well as the purifying facial wipes that help to remove impurities, dirt and oil. And the great thing is with Studio 35 everyday low prices, I don’t have to wait on a promo price or sale, and they’re super easy to pick up at any Walgreens location so I can always have them on hand.
  3. Eat healthy
  
  Funny how things that seems to be good for your general health also translate to your skin. Eating healthy not only helps with weight loss and warding off disease, but it can actually lead to more youthful, glowing skin. When I’m working at the office, I always have my kombucha and veggies to snack on and keep me feeling good. Kombucha is one of the best products you can consume for a healthy gut and if you want to have healthy skin, healing your gut is vitally important.
  4. Wash your face before bed
  
  Most people know that if you want healthy skin, washing your face at night is a must. I like to use the Studio 35 Hydrating Wipes to get rid of dirt and oil while locking in moisture and soothing my skin. It leaves my skin feeling totally refreshed and smooth. And if you have sensitive skin, Walgreens Studio 35 has wipes for that too! You can choose from their sensitive skin wipes or their micellar facial wipes both formulated gently cleanse and hydrate the skin.
  5. Relax with a mask
  
  The grit and grime of the day can wreak havoc on your skin so I like to use a charcoal mask a couple times a week to keep my skin in tip-top shape. Why charcoal? You may have heard about this trendy product recently, and that’s because it is really is a natural detoxifier. The Studio 35 charcoal mask is made with bamboo charcoal known to detoxify the skin. I simply apply it all over my face and let it sit for about 10-15 minutes while I catch up on my favorite show and maybe even indulge in a glass of wine. Then, I just wash it off with warm water and my skin feels totally rejuvenated. You can also use Studio 35 single use sheets masks that cling to your face and then you discard!
  6. Get some sleep!
  After a full day, one of the best things you can do for your skin (and health!) is to get some good shuteye. Too many of us try to skimp by on little sleep each night and then still expect that we’ll feel our best and have a glowing complexion. Sorry, but it doesn’t work that way. In fact, not getting enough sleep can lead to inflammation causing additional breakouts as well as accelerated aging. Beauty sleep is a real thing, y’all.
  Your skin is the largest organ in your body and to make sure you’re treating it well, it takes daily habits of healthy living along with high quality (which doesn’t mean expensive!) products like Studio 35 wipes and masks to leave your skin feeling refreshed and nourished.
  
  ** For the month of August (7/30/17-8/26/17) Walgreens will have BOGO50 on all Studio 35 wipes and masks.
  This is a sponsored conversation written by me on behalf of Walgreens. The opinions and text are all mine. 
  READ THIS NEXT: 10 of Amazon’s Best-Selling Anti-Aging Products"