"It’s seemingly always on the to-do-list: de-cluttering and cleaning the house.
  But did you know that by actually doing it, you can completely change your life (money, health and mood) by reducing anxiety and stress due to clutter.
  We are incredibly lucky to have the ability to buy more things than ever before. I say that because I grew up not having much….at all.
  But the downside to that is that we all have too much stuff and it’s not only causing physical clutter – it affects our health, productivity and mood. How?
  Related: 6 Steps To Melt Away Stress
  
  Clutter makes us overwhelmed and disorganized
  If you are constantly looking for stuff that you cannot find – that is a problem.
  Too much stuff or unorganized closets make us feel anxious and like we are not in control. Add that to stress we already experience, it makes us want to crawl back into bed and not deal with anything.
  Our environment affects our mood and our health
  Sounds crazy but de-cluttering and creating a more organized, simple home environment will make you more likely to hit the gym or eat better.
  According to feng shui, clutter is stuck energy and that energy must affect our wellbeing.
  5 Ways To De-Clutter Your Home & Reduce Stress:
  
  
  
  Clean out your closet.Get rid of pieces that you haven’t worn in a year, get rid of old underwear and socks with holes. If you are on the fence with something, donate it.Organize files and documents, phone apps, inboxes and various subscriptions.You may think it’s good to have all this stuff in your life, but getting rid of unused items and organizing the one you do use will make you feel in control of daily activities, finances and paperwork reducing one of the biggest sources of anxiety.Complete unfinished business.Paint that wall you started months ago, finish that room décor, send out thank you cards, make kid photo albums, etc. I get it, life is busy, but this unfinished stuff hangs over your head and adds to mental noise already present.Get rid of everything that is broken or not working properly.You would be surprised how many people hold onto small items that simply don’t work well anymore. Replace the small items if you can and get rid of things that are broken.
  
  
  
  Organize legal documents.You know that feeling when something happens and you need an important document at the busiest time? Take the time to complete your will, put financial documents together or anything else that is outstanding.
  Even if you do just one of these things, you will see a significant change in the way you feel and as a result, you will make different and more constructive choices in all areas of your life.
  And if this all feels overwhelming, think small: one room, one project, one closet, one drawer at a time.
  Organize in 15-minute increments of time to avoid feeling overwhelmed and to chip away at your clutter. Just think of what you will gain:
  
  Reduced stress
  A sense of order and organization
  Mental clarity
  Breathing room
  Openness to take on new projects
  
  You really can do more and feel lighter with less. Just focus on what matters to you most. Reducing clutter isn’t just about having a clean house; it’s about clearing your mind and making a pathway to welcome new ideas and opportunities in your life.
  I’d love to hear how it goes!
  READ THIS NEXT: 56 Household Uses For Baking Soda"