"The Paleo Diet has gained popularity in recent years for its back-to-the-basics health approach. The lifestyle is all about eating like a caveman. That is, only eating things they could hunt or find. This includes: meat, fowl, fish, eggs, vegetables, natural oils like olive oil, coconut oil and avocado oil, fruits, nuts and tubers like potatoes and yams. That means no grains, no dairy, no sugar, no legumes.
  A world without carbs and dairy may sound unfathomable, but if you’re looking to clean up your diet, it may be an option you want to try. Eating as the Paleolithic humans did involves sourcing food that is local and organically produced, without preservatives, additives, pesticides, antibiotics, hormones and growth stimulants. There are so many easy and delicious Paleo recipes to get you started that will surely curb your need for a big bowl of pasta or a hunk of cheese. Say hello to zoodles, avocado and lots of juicy meats!
  
  Breakfast:
  
  Paleo Pumpkin Pecan Smoothie by Get Healthy U
  
  
  When you wake in the morning and have sweets on your mind, let this hearty and dessert-like smoothie be your go-to. It tastes like a cold pumpkin pie melting in your mouth, but with tons of protein and fiber to fill you up and energize you through the morning.
  Related: Keto vs. Paleo: Which Diet Is Better?
  
  Baked Avocado Eggs by Get Healthy U
  
  
  Mornings are rushed which often leads to the need for a grab-and-go breakfast like a muffin that’s high in sugar. No more. These baked avocado eggs are so easy to make and will surely make you rethink trying something homemade come 7am. Packed with healthy fats, this recipe takes just two ingredients to make, and will keep you satisfied all morning long.
  
  Paleo Breakfast Pizza by Paleo Newbie
  
  
  Breakfast pizza may not sound like the healthiest option, but it’s all about the ingredients. This recipe will not only make the whole family happy, but won’t weigh you down, either. Eggs, sausage, sweet potatoes, broccoli and grape tomatoes come together beautifully in this perfect pie.
  Lunch:
  
  Warm Chipotle Lime Sweet Potato Salad by The Real Food RDs
  
  
  Salads are the perfect way to eat Paleo come noon, and this recipe is just the right mixture of hearty and healthy. Best for when you have some time to spare, or if you choose to make the night before, the salad takes 25 minutes to make. All you need is one skillet!
  
  Paleo Ham & Cucumber Roll-Ups by Paleoaholic
  
  
  A sandwich is a lunchtime staple, but what is a sandwich without the bread and cheese? This recipe will make you reimagine the meal with its fun flavor combinations. Cucumbers take the place of bread as they roll around delicious ingredients like ham, dill and jalapeño, but you could make this recipe with whatever ingredients you love!
  
  Asian Beef Rainbow Salad by A Healthy Life for Me
  
  
  Aiming for the color of the rainbow when you make your salad is sure to ignite some creativity as you pile your plate high with veggies galore. This Asian Beef Rainbow Salad kicks it up a notch, however, incorporating ground beef alongside plenty of raw vegetables.
  Dinner:
  
  Paleo Oven Baked Ribs With 5 Spice And Honey Garlic Glaze by Food Faith Fitness
  
  
  Saucy meats may not sound like the healthiest option when you’re trying to eat well, but the Paleo diet proves you can have your cake and eat it too. These BBQ ribs are oh so savory while also being healthy and packed with protein. Asian spices, a touch of honey and an array of seasonings give them plenty of flavor without the added calories. This recipe is truly a comfort food you can feel good about.
  
  Paleo Stuffed Eggplant with Ground Beef by Everyday Maven
  
  
  Eggplant is one of those meaty vegetables that can really round out a meal. And when it’s stuffed with ground beef? Well that just makes it even more enticing. If you prep in advance, you’ll be able to simply throw the eggplants in the oven when you want and sit back and relax.
  
  Paleo Cauliflower Chicken Chowder by A Healthy Life For Me
  
  
  Marinated in a delicious Korean paste, these Paleo chicken thighs offer a unique flavor boasting a bit of sweet and bit of smokey. Plus, the cauliflower rice is the perfect side dish for this delicious dinner.
  
  Paleo Skillet Beef Fajitas by A Healthy Life for Me
  
  
  When you want to whip up a dinner without the fuss but with all the flavor, let this 30-minute one-pot dinner be your answer. Seared flank steak is the shining star atop a bed of seasoned and sautèed veggies. Gluten-free, dairy-free, Paleo and whole30 friendly, this one not only tastes good, but will give you plenty to brag about.
  
  Paleo Spaghetti Squash Bowls With Cauliflower Alfredo Sauce by Food Faith Fitness
  
  
  Alfredo sauce is another one of those no-nos if you’re trying to keep it clean, except for this recipe! This low-carb dish is bursting with flavors and textures to give you one indulgent dish that’s creamy, rich and healthy.
  Dessert:
  
  Paleo Chocolate Chunk Cookies by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  
  Chocolate chunk cookies are a dessert staple. This recipe takes a mere five minutes to prep, and incorporates extremely simple and healthy ingredients. You can nibble on them fairly guilt-free, too, as they’re low in sugar, free of grains and yet full of delicious chocolate-y flavor.
  
  Paleo Carrot Cake Protein Balls by Get Healthy U
  
  
  Carrot cake is chock-full of calories, but this healthy recipe is the perfect switch if you’re trying to get your sweet fix without the guilt. Whether you want it for dessert or a burst of protein after a hard workout, you’ll love this recipe, which uses raw carrots, raisins, walnuts and dates to give you some seriously sweet flavor with a whole lot of nutritional value.
  
  Paleo Caramel Apple Ginger Snap Cookies by Food Faith Fitness
  
  
  There’s never a bad time for ginger snap cookies! This recipe lightens things up using apples and a Paleo caramel sauce to keep it on the healthy side. The result is a chewy cookie topped with a crunchy cinnamon sugar coating that tastes irresistible, but won’t give you the guilt once they’re down the hatch.
  
  Double Chocolate Paleo Banana Bread by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  
  Can a double chocolate banana bread recipe really be… healthy? The best thing about this Paleo recipe is that you get such a depth of sweet and indulgent flavor using nature’s candy. We often forget that there’s plenty of healthy options that can double as sweet treats. The melty dark chocolate and bananas in this bread give it that sugary-goodness you crave but in the right way. Topped with a little sea salt, it’s a dessert (or breakfast!) sent from heaven.
  READ THIS NEXT: Your 7-Day Whole 30 Meal Plan"