"Whether it’s summertime filled with kids activities and outdoor events or the holiday season bustling with houseguests and festive parties, life always seems to be in fast-forward mode. And when there’s barely enough time to get yourself ready for the day, spending the entire evening in the kitchen to get dinner ready is not ideal for anyone. So, we’ve put together 5 easy and healthy meals for those busy nights when 10 minutes is all the time you have for meal prep—oh and they’re all 6 ingredients or less! Score.
  Bruschetta Baked Chicken
  This recipe has summer written all over it. Fresh garden tomatoes and freshly picked basil are the best way to make this chicken!
  
  
  3 tablespoons olive oil, divided
  2 campari tomatoes, diced and divided
  Fresh basil
  Salt & pepper, to taste
  2 boneless, skinless chicken breasts
  3/4 cup mozzarella cheese, shredded
  
  Preheat the oven to 400°. Combine the olive oil, tomatoes and basil in a small bowl. Place chicken breasts in a baking pan sprinkle with salt and pepper. Spoon tomato mixture over each breast and top with mozzarella cheese. Bake for 20 minutes or until cooked through. Garnish with additional basil.
  Margherita Flatbread Pizza
  This little taste of Italy is low in calories, full of fiber and simply delicious.
  
  
  1 Low Carb Wrap
  1 Large Tomato
  1 tsp. Oregano
  6 Basil Leaves
  1/2 Cup Part Skim Shredded Mozzarella
  Balsamic Vinegar
  
  Get the full recipe here. 
  Related: 7 Easy Spiralized Vegetable Recipes For Beginners
  Creamy Cauliflower Alfredo
  Swap out your typical Alfredo for this creamy cauliflower version!
  
  
  1 1/2 cups raw cauliflower
  1/4 teaspoon garlic powder, or 2 teaspoons minced
  1/4 to 1/2 teaspoons salt
  2 tablespoon butter of choice, such as Earth Balance (or sub 2 tbsp olive oil and a little extra salt if needed)
  1 cup milk of choice
  
  Optional
  
  1/2 cup of either of the following: nutritional yeast or mozzarella-style shreds (such as Daiya)
  Add a little Dijon mustard or lemon juice if desired
  
  Get the full recipe here. 
  Cheddar and Carrot Mac & Cheese
  This unique Mac and Cheese recipe has a whole pound of carrots inside, plus it saves you major calories without sacrificing taste!
  
  
  8 oz high fiber pasta shells or elbows
  1 lb. baby carrots
  1.5 cups reduced fat shredded cheddar cheese
  2 tbsp. bread crumbs
  Salt and pepper
  
  Get the full recipe here. 
  Mediterranean Breakfast Pita
  This Mediterranean Breakfast Pita is one of my favorite “brinner” (i.e. breakfast for dinner) recipes! On those nights when your exhausted and need something quick, this healthy and delicious meal comes together in just a few minutes.
  
  
  1 teaspoon olive oil
  1/2 of a whole wheat pita bread
  2 eggs
  1 tablespoon feta cheese
  4 cherry tomatoes cut in half
  5-8 spinach leaves
  Salt and pepper to taste
  
  Ok, so this one has 7 ingredients, but c’mon salt and pepper don’t really count, right?
  Get the full recipe here. 
  READ THIS NEXT: 11 Simple Slow Cooker Meals"