"This post is sponsored by Metamucil. All opinions are my own. 
  Think way back to those New Year’s resolutions you made almost 12 months ago. How did they go? Did you follow through or did you completely forget about them come March?
  Either way, this year can be bigger, better, and most importantly, healthier than last year.
  Since I get messages every day asking how to finally ditch those unwanted pounds and get in shape, I’ve rounded up 5 of my top tips on the most important things to start the year on a healthy foot.
  Here’s to your healthiest and happiest year ever!
  1. Be Realistic About Your Goals
  Weight loss and healthy lifestyle changes take time. It’s not going to happen all at once, easily or without you working your butt off (figuratively and literally!).
  Write yourself a note or commit right now that even when you aren’t seeing the results you want as quickly as you want, you will stay consistent.
  Consistency is the ultimate key and so many of us call it quits before we give ourselves the chance to make a difference.
  If it helps, toss that scale into a back closet and only pull it out once a week or even once a month. This might sound counterintuitive, but when people are fixated on those three numbers and how those numbers report daily, self-image can take a rollercoaster ride.
  Instead, find other markers of “success.” For instance, were you able to workout five minutes longer today? Are you clothes fitting a little better? Did you say “no” to an indulgence today?
  Be proud of those moments and know that even if you’re not seeing outward change yet, you’re still doing a good thing for your body.
  2. Implement One to Two Healthy Dietary Changes
  
  Making changes to your diet is a huge part of healthy living and weight loss. But sometimes we bite off more than we can chew.
  My recommendation? Choose just a couple things to focus on when it comes to nutritional changes.
  Rather than jumping into a crazy diet that throws off your entire routine (which I don’t recommend for a number of reasons), start to implement just one or two changes and then add in more once you’ve developed those habits.
  A couple ideas:
  
  Cut out soda
  Make 1-2 more home cooked meals each week
  Add 2 more servings of fruit each day
  Add 2 more servings of vegetables each day
  Lower your sugar intake
  Increase your daily fiber intake
  
  Speaking of fiber… most people don’t realize how crucial fiber is when it comes to weight loss.
  Millions of Americans feel sluggish, weighed down, and “blah” because of their digestive system. Fiber is a plant-based nutrient often referred to as “roughage” or “bulk” that helps efficiently move food through the body. Fiber only comes from plant-based foods, and unfortunately, most Americans don’t eat nearly enough fiber every day!
  That is why I’m so excited to partner with Metamucil and take the Metamucil Two-Week Challenge as part of my healthy resolutions in 2019! Metamucil is a daily supplement that contains 100% natural psyllium fiber, a soluble fiber that works with your digestive system to help trap and remove the waste that weights you down.
  The Metamucil Two-Week Challenge asks people to add one small step to their daily routine for two weeks to promote regularity*.
  If you’re currently among the 95% of Americans who don’t get enough fiber in their diet, join my in this challenge!
  
  3. Get Your Body Moving 
  
  If you’re just getting started with a renewed commitment to healthy living, it can start with something as simple as ten minutes.  
  If you’ve ever wondered if 10 minutes works, try this Low Impact Circuit Workout I created for you and let me know how you feel.  I bet it will get your heart pumping, muscles moving and give you some extra energy. It’s low impact on the joints (no jumping) so great for those of you looking for something kinder to the body but still a great workout.  
  Exercise doesn’t have to be an hour long session. Even breaking it into ten minute increments will help you on your journey to a healthier 2019.  
  4. Focus on Sleep 
  I know you’ve heard it before: “strive for seven or eight hours of sleep each night.” 
  And while this may seem unrealistic for you, here’s a fact: in a study from the University of Pennsylvania, subjects who slept four and a half hours a night for one week felt more stressed, angry, sad, and mentally exhausted compared to their normal sleep patterns. 
  Prioritizing sleep when you can will result in a better mood and also help you make healthier choices when it come to food. 
  Why? When you’re sleep-deprived, two hormones in your body—leptin and ghrelin—can get thrown out of whack which affects how satiated you feel and your appetite throughout the day. 
  So no, you’re not just imagining things when you feel like being sleepy makes you feel hungrier and overeat throughout the day—it really does!
  And since a solid and consistent sleep schedule can be the difference between an energy-filled one and dreary one, stress the importance of seven to eight hours a night.
  5. Drink More Water 
  Water is critical to keeping your body functioning at its highest level. Plus, if weight loss is your goal, water is going to be your new best friend. 
  Staying hydrated helps you stay energized and healthy; plus it keeps you from over-eating when your body is really just thirsty. 
  When your body is dehydrated, all sorts of things from mental fogginess to dizziness to fatigue can set in.
  No matter what healthy things you’re adding to your water (like Metamucil!), aim for at least 64 ounces of water throughout the day. 
  Not sure how? Try out our favorite hack to drink more water each day – it really works!!
  *These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
  1 USDA Food Composition Databases. (n.d.). Retrieved December 11, 2017, from
  https://ndb.nal.usda.gov/ndb/search/list
  This post is sponsored by Metamucil. All opinions are my own.
  READ THIS NEXT: 7 Ways To Make New Year’s Resolutions That Stick"