"‘Tis the season for picnics, barbecues and potlucks. And while a good potato salad or cole slaw is always a safe choice, there are so many other delicious and healthy options you can make and bring. Here are our 13 favorite side dish recipes perfect for your next barbecue or picnic (and yes, we included a potato salad and coleslaw in case your version could use a healthy upgrade).
  Black Bean and Corn Salsa by Get Healthy U
  This black bean and corn salsa, also sometimes referred to as cowboy caviar, is a favorite at any gathering. It’s made with super fresh ingredients, has tons of flavor and is super easy to make.
  
  Related: A Better-For-You Picnic Basket: Easy and Healthy Essentials
  Fennel Slaw by Get Healthy U
  Upgrade your normal cole slaw with this version made with fennel! It has a super unique flavor that everyone will love.
  
  Guacamole  by Get Healthy U
  Guacamole is a staple at any party. And this is our absolute favorite recipe! Super healthy and so delicious.
  
  Blueberry Corn Salad by A Healthy Life For Me
  The ingredients in this recipe are so flavorful and we’re obsessed with anything that combines corn and jalapeños. It’s a perfect salad for summer!
  
  Summer Berry Crostini by Ambitious Kitchen
  This recipe can be made in less than 15 minutes but still looks so pretty when you serve it. Simply top baguettes with ricotta, olive oil, lemon juice, honey and berries.
  
  Lightened Up Potato Salad by The Healthy Maven
  Most potato salads are loaded up with mayo and other bad-for-you ingredients. This version is lightened up in fat and calories but not in flavor.
  
  Creamy Avocado Salsa Verde by Slender Kitchen
  This tangy salsa pairs perfectly with veggies, chips or other other dipper! And all you have to do is throw the ingredients into a food processor and blend!
  
  Red, White and Blue Potato Skewers by Fit Foodie Finds
  Perfect for Independence Day, these red, white and blue skewers are a fun take on potatoes.
  
  Healthy Baked Beans by Chocolate Covered Katie
  Baked beans are a classic for any picnic or barbecue. And if you’ve never tried making your own, you’re missing out. The texture and flavor is so much better and this recipe has fewer calories and less sugar than the typical version.
  
  Healthy Southwest Pasta Salad with Chipotle Lime Dressing by Ambitious Kitchen
  If you’re looking for a more substantial side, look no further. This flavor-packed recipe is loaded with good-for-you ingredients and the most delicious chipotle lime dressing.
  
  Watermelon, Feta and Mint Salad by Slender Kitchen
  Our team loves this super fresh and unique recipe. The flavor pairings are spot on and it’s super easy to throw together!
  
  Protein Puppy Chow by Food Faith Fitness
  Who doesn’t love a good puppy chow? This recipe adds protein powder for an added boost.
  
  
  
  
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 9 Low-Calorie Cocktail Recipes For Healthier Sipping"