"People have many reasons for going vegan: animal cruelty, healthier eating, environmental impacts and so on.
  Whatever the reason though, eliminating all animal products including milk, cheese, meat and seafood is a big change from the standard American diet.
  Just take a look at any vegan grocery list and you’ll see first hand how much it may differ from meat-eaters.
  While our team here at Get Healthy U isn’t vegan, we like to incorporate healthy vegan meals into our week to make sure we’re eating a well-rounded diet that includes lots of plant-based options and gives some of our popular go-to’s like meat and cheese a break.
  Below, we’ve compiled our favorite healthy vegan recipes for you as your coming up with your vegan meal plan or when you’re looking for something a little different.
  From vegan breakfast ideas to vegan desserts, we’ve got you covered.
  Use the links below to quickly navigate this page:
  
  Vegan Breakfast Ideas
  Vegan Lunch Ideas
  Vegan Snack Ideas
  Vegan Dinner Ideas
  Vegan Dessert IdeasVegan Breakfast Ideas
  There are plenty of vegan breakfast options outside of your typical sausage and eggs. And thinking outside the box a bit may actually benefit your health.
  The below vegan breakfast ideas are super delicious and are sure to keep you full well into the morning.
  Related: 15 High Protein Breakfasts Under 300 Calories
  Vegan Almond Butter Banana Oatmeal Smoothie by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  A smoothie is a breakfast staple; it’s quick, easy and perfect to take on the go.
  This vegan oatmeal smoothie uses almond milk instead of dairy milk plus you get an added protein boost from the almond butter.
  Finish it off with a banana for sweetness and you’ve got the perfect start to your day!
  Vegan Berry Coconut Parfaits by The Healthy Maven
  
  Another great option for your vegan breakfast is these berry coconut parfaits.
  They’re pretty enough and seemingly indulgent enough for dessert, but actually a good-for-you breakfast powerhouse.
  Loaded with antioxidants from the berries and healthy fats from coconut milk, it’s a parfait worth having!
  Turmeric Porridge by Heavenlynn Healthy
  
  For a warm vegan breakfast option, this turmeric porridge is super comforting and is sure to keep you satisfied until lunch.
  You likely already know all the benefits of oats, most notably it’s fiber content, but do you know that turmeric is one of the best spices you can add to your diet. It’s anti-inflammatory, full of antioxidants, can help improve your memory and can even help prevent (or treat) cancer!
  
  Vegan Lunch Ideas
  Whether you’re wrangling children or working your way through the day, getting a healthy meal in your stomach is crucial to keep you energized.
  These vegan lunch ideas are just what you need and something you can look forward to to break up your day!
  Vegan Chickpea Curry with Cauliflower Rice by LaaLoosh
  
  Chickpeas are an awesome option if you’re looking for additional protein sources. And this chickpea curry with cauliflower rice will make all your co-workers jealous.
  With the rich flavors of curry plus all the veggies, this recipe is a clear winner.
  Salsa Verde Lentil Tacos with Mango Pico by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  Tacos are the perfect lunch. And these vegan ones swap your typical ground beef for protein-rich lentils.
  With tomatillos, poblano and jalapeños peppers, it’s got all the Mexican flavor you love and it’s topped with a juicy mango pico.
  Sweet Potato and Cauliflower Thai Curry by Heavenlynn Healthy
  
  Carrots, bell pepper, sweet potato and cauliflower are just a few of the veggies you’ll find in this vegan recipe.
  It’s perfect to make ahead of time and then put in tupperware for easy and healthy lunches all week long!
  
  Vegan Snack Ideas
  Snacks can often make or break your healthy eating routine. Choose to use snack time as a platform to get more nutrients and you’ll be on your way to healthier you!
  These vegan snack recipes are simple to make and even more delicious to eat!
  Spicy Nacho Kale Chips by Everyday Maven
  
  Though many potato chips are vegan, they’re not exactly healthy. Instead, try giving these spicy nacho kale chips when you’re hankering for a snack.
  They fill your craving for crunch and even have a “cheesy” flavor from the nutritional yeast.
  Bonus: they’re also gluten free and paleo!
  Roasted Pumpkin Seeds by Get Healthy U
  
  Another great vegan snack idea is pumpkin seeds! They’ve got tons of nutrients like magnesium, potassium, phosphorous, zinc, fiber and cancer-fighting selenium!
  Plus, they’re perfectly portable and great to fill a rumbling stomach.
  
  Vegan Dinner Ideas
  Meat and potatoes are far from the only options when it comes to dinner.
  Plant-based options are perfect to finish off a healthy day and you can still make a delicious meal that will fill you up. We’ve got three ideas for you.
  Summer Roll Bowl with Peanut Lime Sauce by Heavenlynn Healthy
  
  Like a deconstructed spring roll, this summer roll bowl makes for a super fun and unique dinner.
  It’s full of colorful veggies and topped with an addicting peanut lime sauce and avocado. It’s low-carb, gluten free and of course, vegan!
  Vegan Coconut Curry with Sweet Potato Noodles by Food Faith Fitness
  
  How does 5 minutes of prep sounds for this delicious coconut curry sound? Amazing? We thought so.
  On a base of sweet potato noodles, it’s a comforting vegan dish you can do some simple prep, let it cook for 25 minutes and come back to warming healthy dish.
  Healthy Thai Coconut Bowl by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  This thai inspired buddha bowl uses quinoa, a complete protein, as the base to fill you up and keep you satisfied.
  We love the addition of coconut, plus all of the hearty vegetables!
  
  Vegan Desserts
  Think you can’t eat dessert on the vegan diet? Think again!
  The below recipes use simple plant-based swaps to steer clear of any animal products but are just as delicious as their traditional counterparts.
  Homemade Vegan Peppermint Mocha by Get Healthy U
  
  During the winter months, there’s nothing more comforting than a warm, sweet coffee drink in hand, however, many are loaded with cream (not vegan!) and sugar (not healthy!).
  This homemade peppermint mocha uses extra dark chocolate, less sweetener than your typical coffee shop version and rich coconut milk for a vegan-friendly but still creamy topping!
  Flourless Black Bean Avocado Brownies by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  Brownies are typically eliminated from the vegan diet due to the butter and eggs, however these rich chocolate brownies have swap both of those ingredients for avocado and a flax egg.
  Plus, instead of flour, you use black beans for a healthier recipe that packs on the fiber and healthy fats.
  Eating foods that align with the vegan diet can work wonders for your health. And it also give you a chance to be creative in the kitchen challenging some of the things you reach for unconsciously.
  Getting more fruits and vegetables into your meals is possibly the best thing you can do for your body, so if you’ve embraced the vegan diet as a part of your lifestyle, we salute you!
  READ THIS NEXT: 11 Fast & Easy Vegetarian Dinners"