"When starting a healthy eating plan, people often look for ways to reduce their intake of saturated fat. And cutting back on red meat is often a by-product. Luckily you can substitute ground turkey for ground beef in the majority of recipes without any problem. And just remember, for whatever ground meat you choose, try to find the lowest ratio of fat content: 93/7 is a much smarter choice than 80/20. Here are 13 of our favorite and healthy ground turkey recipes.
  Paleo Casserole with Turkey, Peppers, Zucchini and Tomato by Food Faith Fitness
  
  When you’re looking for a hearty, comforting dish that will satisfy, look no further than this paleo casserole loaded with good-for-you ingredients like peppers, tomatoes, zucchini and of course, ground turkey! P.S. it’s gluten free!
  Goat Cheese Stuffed Turkey Burgers with Tangy Peach BBQ Sauce by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  Turkey burgers are a common substitution for the classic beef burger, but this recipes kicks it up a notch with the addition of creamy goat cheese and tangy peach BBQ sauce. Perfect for summer!
  Turkey Zucchini Pizza Lasagna by Food Faith Fitness
  
  This combo recipe combines two delicious comfort food favorites: pizza and lasagna. Except this recipe is made healthy with ground turkey and zucchini for a gluten-free, low carb dinner. Plus, you can totally customize this pizza lasagna any way you like. Just choose your favorite toppings to accommodate the whole family!
  Related: 7 Easy Spiralized Vegetables Recipes For Beginners
  Lazy Girl Turkey Salsa Chili by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  This Lazy Girl recipe is the epitome of a “dump” recipe. Simply, dump a few ingredients (most from a can!) into your slow cooker, set it and go on your merry way! At the end of the day, you’ll have a delicious chili ready to go. Oh and potentially the best part of this! Clean-up is a breeze.
  Spinach and Feta Stuffed Turkey Burgers by Get Healthy U
  
  Another change-up to the normal beef burger is this delicious turkey burger made with spinach and feta for added moisture and flavor. It’s a perfectly healthy, protein-packed dinner filled with herbs and spices.
  Southwestern Meatloaf Muffins by Get Healthy U
  
  If you’ve got some hungry “meat and potato” eaters in your house, you’re going to want to try this recipe. The meatloaf is made healthy with the use of turkey and they’re also made in muffin tins which mean portion control is easy!
  Mexican Zucchini Noodles with Jalapeño Popper Turkey Meatballs by Food Faith Fitness
  
  Try this healthy spin on spaghetti and meatballs with zucchini noodles and turkey meatballs! It’s got all the flavor of the real thing, but has way less fat and calories. This recipe is also low carb, high protein and gluten-free.
  White Bean Spinach Turkey Stuffed Bell Peppers with Burrata by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  This recipe is pretty enough to serve for company! But even more than it’s pretty presentation, it’s got major nutrition to boot. Filled with fiber and protein-rich ingredients like spinach, beans, turkey, brown rice and more, it’s a perfectly balanced meal in one tidy package.
  Chipotle Turkey and Sweet Potato Chili by The Real Food RDs
  
  Pack a little heat with this yummy chipotle chili that’s gluten-free, dairy-free and paleo-friendly. We also love the addition of the sweet potatoes which give it some sweetness alongside ground turkey and diced tomatoes.
  Turkey Taco Fiesta Cups by Get Healthy U
  
  This low carb, recipe ps perfect for a lighter dinner option. Using lettuce cups instead of tortillas, it’s a low calorie alternative plus it’s loaded with fun ingredients like jicama for crunch! Make it for your next Taco Tuesday!
  Pepper Jack Stuffed Turkey Zucchini Meatloaf by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  What’s better than meatloaf? Meatloaf stuffed with cheese! This recipe packs some amazing flavor all while staying healthy with turkey and zucchini!
  One Pan Quinoa Taco Skillet by LaaLoosh
  
  You just can’t beat a one-pan meal. And when it’s as delicious and healthy as this quinoa taco skillet, you really can’t beat it!
  Cabbage Rolls by Get Healthy U
  
  With an updated spin on Grandma’s cabbage rolls, these babies are sure to please. A great weekend recipe, these cabbage rolls take some time in the oven, but in the end, they’ll be so worth it!
  READ THIS NEXT: 15 Easy & Delicious Paleo Recipes"