"Looking for low-calorie breakfast recipes? You’ve come to the right place. But in fact, we’ll do you one better. Not only are the below options 300 calories or less, but they are also high protein breakfast recipes that will actually keep you full. 
  By eating the right combination of healthy protein, carbs and fat you jumpstart your metabolism and prevent overeating later in the day.  With these high protein 300-calorie breakfast recipes, you’ll boost your energy, keep your focus and stay full until lunch.
  If you’re wondering how many calories you should be eating in the morning or if 300 calories is enough for breakfast, you first need to decide what your overall calorie intake will be for the day.
  For the average woman who’s looking to lose weight, aiming to eat around 1,600 quality calories per day will help you lose weight. If you are looking to maintain your weight, 2000 calories a day would be ok. That being said, everyone is different so look at your personal weight, height and activity level and try this daily caloric needs estimate calculator from the American Council On Exercise  to decide what’s best for you. 
  Once you decide on how many calories you want to consume in a day,  you will see that eating 300 – 400 calories at breakfast can work, give you the energy needed to start your day, and will curb your appetite until lunch!
  So, rise and shine with these 13 low calorie breakfast recipes:
  1. Breakfast Burritos 
  Breakfast burritos are satisfying and super healthy. You can stuff them with a variety of veggies but one of our favorite combinations is sweet potatoes, black beans, eggs and avocado. They are a great low-calorie breakfast option that are easy to take on the go as well. Perfect for meal prepping and freezing for maximum time saving on busy mornings.
  
  Calories: Approximately 295
  Recipes to try: 
  Whole Wheat Breakfast Burritos 
  Healthy Sweet Potato, Black Bean & Avocado Breakfast Burritos
  2. Breakfast Quinoa
  Breakfast quinoa is a great alternative to your typical bowl of oatmeal. It’s packed with plant-based protein from the quinoa and still low-calorie coming in under 300 calories.  It’s great topped with seeds, fruit, cinnamon and even a few dark chocolate chips. 
  
  Calories: Approximately 222 in 1 cup
  Recipes to try: 
  Cinnamon Apple Breakfast Quinoa 
  Rise and Shine Breakfast Quinoa
  Related: Why Breakfast Is So Important
  3. Egg Cups 
  If you’re looking for low-calorie breakfast ideas, egg cups are ideal for mornings tight on time and are a fun breakfast alternative for kids. They’re easy to make gluten-free and chock-full of protein, they’ll fuel you up while you’re on-the-go. Plus, you can add all sorts of different veggies and cheeses to change things up.
  
  Calories: Approximately 72 calories per egg 
  Recipes to try: 
  Sweet Potato Tot Egg Cups
  McSkinny Egg Muffins
  4. Frittata 
  Frittatas are a perfect, fulfilling dish that allows you to feed the entire family or meal prep for the week. It’s an easy dish to make vegetarian or dairy-free and it’s easy to hide extra goodness like hemp seeds or flaxseed for some extra protein punch.  Plus, cleanup is a snap because this healthy breakfast can be made in only one pan.
  
  Calories: Approximately 145 
  Recipes to try: 
  The Giant Frittata
   Artichoke, Spinach & Herb Frittata
  5. Smoothies
  Smoothies are a popular breakfast option for someone trying to lose weight.  They take mere minutes to blend up, are easy to make and keep you full. The flavor combinations are endless but a few key components are: a liquid (water or nut milk), protein powder, choice of fruit, handful of greens and a pinch of nuts or seeds. Get creative and experiment with the food you already have in your fridge!
  
  Calories: Approximately 240
  Recipe to try: 
  Purple Power Protein Smoothie Bowl 
  Berry Light Breakfast Smoothie
  6. Muffins
  Muffins are an ideal option to meal prep ahead of time. And with the right ingredients, you can easily make them low-calorie and high in protein. Plus, they’ll fuel you up while you’re on-the-go.
  
  Calories: Approximately 260
  Recipes to try:
   Muffin In A Minute
   Gluten Free Banana Bread Muffins
  Healthy Carrot Cake Muffins
  7. Avocado Toast 
  After you’ve tried this low calorie, high protein breakfast, avocado toast is going to be your new staple breakfast. It’s so easy and so satisfying. My go-to bread is sourdough, but feel free to use your choice of whole grain, gluten free bread or even sweet potatoes as your ‘toast’. After spreading your ripe avocado, add a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.  
  I’ve also been known to add a sprinkle of hemp heart seeds, sesame seeds, micro-greens, goat cheese crumbles or cut up tomatoes. Yummy!
  
  Calories: Approximately 200 
  Recipes to try:
  High Protein Vegan Avocado Toast
  Classic Avocado Toast
  8. Breakfast Bars
  Breakfast bars will satisfy your sweet tooth without sending your blood sugar levels for a spin. They taste just like a store bought version but without all the added sugar and not-so-good-for-you ingredients. 
  
  Calories: Approximately 116 -235 
  Recipes to try: 
  Peanut Butter and Chocolate Energy Bars
  Healthy Banana Bread Chocolate Chip Oat Breakfast Bars 
  9. Greek Yogurt 
  This low-maintenance breakfast is always a good option if you’re looking for a high protein breakfast with no eggs. We highly recommend reading your food label and choose one with the lowest grams of sugar.  Add different toppings to switch up your flavors providing you with a healthy morning option that you can’t resist. Some of our favorite toppings: cinnamon, chia seeds, almonds, fruit, coconut, vanilla extract, granola, sunflower seeds and pistachios. 
  
  Calories: Approximately 100-199
  Recipes to try: 
  Kauai Crunch Bow
  Greek Yogurt and Quinoa Breakfast Bowls
  10. Omelette In A Mug
  Want an omelette that turns out perfect every time? An omelette in a mug takes a whopping 2 minutes to make, and is packed with protein and vegetables to keep you full and energized all morning long.
  
  Calories: 213
  Recipes to try: 
  Classic Omelette In A Mug
  11. Oatmeal 
  Oatmeal is a classic breakfast option but sometimes it can get plain boring. The below recipes add in some fun flavor options to change things up. One of oatmeals most amazing attributes? It’s ability to keep you feeling full thanks to its fiber and protein content while still being low calorie. Plus, it’s another great high-protein breakfast with no eggs.
  
   
  Calories: 240
  Recipes to try: 
  Banana Nut Oatmeal
  Healthy Carrot Cake Oatmeal
  12. Smoothie Bowls
  A smoothie bowl is just an extra thick smoothie you get to eat with a spoon and can easily be a protein powerhouse. They are packed with nutrition and typically topped with hearty ingredients that will help your stomach feel satisfied longer. It’s also a great option if you are looking for a high protein breakfast with no eggs.
  
  Calories: Approximately 220
  Recipes to try:
  Purple Power Protein Smoothie Bowl
  Tropical Detox Smoothie Bowl
  13. Pancakes
  There’s no doubt about it, pancakes are a delicious 300-calorie breakfast. They’re a family favorite and super simple to make. These pancake recipes are rich in flavor and so healthy we’ll have you wondering why you ever gave up pancakes! 
  
  Calories: Approximately 300
  Recipes to try: 
  Blueberry Walnut Protein Pancakes
  Healthy Pumpkin Pancakes
  Too Easy Two-Ingredient Pancake
  Why You Want to Include Protein In Your Breakfast
  1. Protein is important for developing and maintaining lean muscle. If you save your protein intake for later in the day, your body doesn’t have enough time to use it. Including protein in your breakfast insures your muscle maintenance is at its best. 
  2. Protein is fuel for your metabolism. If you choose a protein rich breakfast you will burn more calories throughout the day.
  3. Protein helps you feel full for longer so you’re able to avoid that midday snack as well as make better food choices.  So if weight loss is a goal, you will be well on your way if you start your day with a protein rich breakfast. 
  High Protein Breakfast Ingredients
  You can take many traditional breakfast combinations up a notch by using ingredients that are high in protein. A few all-stars in the protein department are: 
  
  Chia seeds
  Flax seeds
  Quinoa
  Chickpeas
  Eggs
  Broccoli
  Oats
  Salmon
  Black beans
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 11 Dinner Recipes Under 400 Calories"