"It’s no secret that eggs pack a powerful nutrition punch. One egg has only 75 calories but 7 grams of high-quality protein. In addition, eggs are an amazing source of iron, vitamins, and carotenoids. Carotenoids are a class of phytonutrients which can help prevent everything from cardiovascular disease to certain cancers. 
  Not only are eggs a great source of nutrition, but their high protein content keeps you feeling fuller longer. Have you ever noticed if you have eggs for breakfast you’re less likely to crave a mid-morning snack? Ok, maybe you don’t have time to make an omelet every day, so hard-boiled eggs are the perfect way to make a healthy source of protein more portable.
  But many people claim hard-boiling an egg is too difficult or not worth the fuss.
  Egg peeling hack
  We’ll show you how to hard -boil eggs with the push-pin trick! This will completely changed how you hard boil your eggs and they come out perfectly every time. Keep reading to learn our favorite hard boiled egg hack.
  Related: Avocado Deviled Eggs
  You will need:
  
  As many eggs as you’d like to hard-boil. (I usually make a dozen at a time; that way I can snack on them all week.)
  1 push-pin
  Medium saucepan
  Cold water
  
  Hard boiled egg how to:
  
  Bring a saucepan of cold water to a boil.
  
  Poke each of your eggs with a push pin, making a tiny hole in the shell. The hack really is that simple.
  
  Add eggs to boiling water by carefully dropping them in. Boil for approximately 10 minutes.
  
  Turn off boiling water and let eggs sit in the saucepan for approximately 5-10 minutes. Take the eggs out of the water and let them dry off. I use tongs and let them sit on a dish towel.
  
  Place eggs in fridge after they have cooled. Store your hard-boiled eggs in the fridge safely for up to a week.
  
  And that’s it! Grab and go when you want.
  Peeling hard boiled eggs
  With the push pin egg peeling hack, the final step is a breeze. You will find that these eggs will peel without the shell sticking. Simply crack and peel and eat!
  PS: For you egg lovers, here are some of my favorite egg recipes for healthy, protein-packed meals you can make all week:
  Baked Eggs in Peppers
  Cheesy Egg White Veggie Breakfast Muffins
  Skinny Huevos Rancheros Breakfast Enchiladas
  McSkinny Egg Muffins
  Avocado Deviled Eggs
  Pin these tips for later!
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 55 Healthy and Easy Snacks"