"Butt, backside, buns, bum, booty—whatever you call it—you probably want a better one. Everybody does! Firm, round, and lifted are highly desired derriere traits. But let’s put how to look perkier in jeans out of our heads for a second and talk a little science. The suspense!
  Did you know your butt is home to the biggest muscle in your entire body? The gluteus maximus, and it’s a glorious thing! This muscle is involved in everything from cycling to walking to climbing stairs to standing!
  If your glutes aren’t strong, our entire lower body alignment can get out of whack and cause shin splints, runner’s knee, and Achilles tendinitis. And when the gluteus maximus is too weak to do it’s job, other less capable muscles like the hamstrings, low back, quads, and calves have to do extra work which can increase the risk of injury. A strong gluteus maximus means a stronger and more active you!
  So are you ready to build a better butt? These are three of my go-to moves to gain strength and score a gorgeous pair of glutes – maybe even a bubble butt? Add these exercises into your workout twice a week. Your jeans AND your gluteus maximus will thank you!
  
  Move #1: Stand Up Sit Downs
  Your balance and your backside will both be worked with this move. Grab a bench or a chair—the lower the seat, the harder the challenge! Start in sitting, with or without a weight, and push up on your right leg to standing. Lower back down. That’s one rep.  Continue for 15 more reps, and then repeat on the left leg. Rest for 30 seconds and do one more set on both legs.
  
  Related: 14 Days To A Better Butt
  Move #2: Sumo Squat with Knee Lift
  Sumo wrestlers probably didn’t care about a perky butt, but we do! This move will round the rear and trim the inner thighs. Stand with your feet wider than hip-width apart and toes slightly turned out. Squat down as low as you can, keeping the weight in your heels, and your back straight. As you press back up to standing, lift your right leg straight out to the side. Lower your leg, squat again, and repeat with left leg. Do 15 Sumo Squats with Leg Lift on each side. Rest for 30 seconds and do one more set.
  
  Move #3: Single Leg Glute Bridge
  This move is a lower body machine. Not only are your glutes targeted, but your quads, hamstrings, calves, lower back, and abs will feel the burn as well! Lie on your back with your arms pressed against the floor by your sides, left knee bent, and right leg extended toward the ceiling as straight as possible. Tighten your abs, press down through your left foot, and lift hips as high as possible. Lower hips back down to starting. That’s one rep. Continue pressing up and down without touching your butt to the ground. Do 15 reps, and then repeat with left leg lifted. Rest for 30 seconds and do one more set on both legs.
  
  Want more? Download our “14 Days to a Better Butt Challenge” below!
   
  
  READ THIS NEXT: Your At-Home Butt and Thigh Workout"