"Indecision can become a barrier between you and your most fulfilling life. Do you ever experience analysis paralysis and get stuck thinking about doing something instead of actually doing it? With so many different choices and paths to consider, it’s easy to get overwhelmed and freeze up. It happens to the best of us. Often we don’t know where to start or we fear making the wrong choice. I want to show you how to get unstuck by taking that first step. Let’s go to the heart of things, dig deep and discover how taking one action–doing just one thing a day even–can significantly change your life.
  But first, let’s back up a bit. There are at least one million different ideas out there that promise fulfillment. Let me introduce you to some of them:
  
  Going on meditation retreats
  Going on yoga retreats
  Reading every self-help book on the planet
  Hiring a personal coach or a spiritual teacher
  Selling everything and traveling the world
  Becoming a minimalist
  Losing all the weight you think you need to lose
  Getting those perfect teeth once and for all
  Showing up in the bikini for the beach party for the first time EVER
  Having children after years of trying
  
  You and I can sit here and read a list that goes on for hours, but that is not what we are here for, right?
  Related: 3 Simple Ways To Thrive
  Every month, a new concept emerges that tells us THE secret to finding happiness and fulfillment. Some are insanely deceptive (like this chocolate study) and that makes us even more lost.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Click to Tweet
  The downfall of so many options is that we do nothing at all. Bombarded by the media, by success stories and by inspirational quotes – we become numb to it all. We become immune to the effect one quote can have on our lives because we don’t perceive its true value among the sea of so many quotes. Why stop here when something better might be right around the corner?
  Imagine going to a store and wanting to buy a new coffee cup because your kid broke your favorite one. If you are anything like me, you may take your time to find the perfect coffee cup. Which one do I buy? Even the most beautiful ones lose their shine among so many in the same place.
  But, let’s say the next morning someone gives you a gift: a coffee cup wrapped in a bow. All of a sudden, by putting emphasis on that coffee cup – it seems to shine a little bit more and thus, it becomes the best coffee cup for us.
  Or, have you ever spent days and months trying to plan a perfect vacation?
  I can do all inclusive, maybe a balcony this time … and wow dolphins, but the other place offers daycare and it might be nice to get away from the kids for an hour or two. Hmmm, which one do I pick?
  We spend so much time fantasizing about that vacation that in fact, we seem to derive more pleasure from planning it than actually taking a vacation. But if you were just to pick one and run with it, you would make the most out of it.
  So much choice affects our decision-making ability and brings constant doubt in ourselves to make rational decisions: what if I could have booked an even better hotel room? Or what if I could have gotten an even better deal?
  This is very frightening because, over time, we stop trusting our decision-making abilities and we start to second-guess everything we do. When we start doing that, it becomes hard to execute and turn your dreams into reality.
  Most of us just keep looking and we keep doing nothing. Analysis eventually leads to paralysis. We start spinning in circles and end up in the same place we started. We don’t start with anything in particular.
  I once wrote about my experience in a grocery store when I first came to the United States. I had never seen so many cereal boxes in my life and after much time spent considering what to buy, I walked away empty handed and hungry.
  Sound familiar?
  I would really like to think that all my reading and thinking will make me rich, happy and healthy but the only way to realizing your goals is doing SOMETHING. One thing. Anything.  
  Anything? Yes, anything.
  Let go of indecision and make one decision today toward a goal. Take that first step. Tomorrow, take another step.
  See, sometimes we just have to start. The whole “bodies in motion tend to stay in motion” stuff. Momentum and focus then kick-in to help.
  Sometimes, the start is just a start and it doesn’t have to be the most deliberate thing – just something to give us a point of reference or a good story to tell when we are old and laughing about our life choices over good dinner with friends.
  Related: Women Should Lift Each Other Up
  If we never get up and go after the things we want, we will fail to realize our goals. The difference between those who make it and those who don’t: trying, making mistakes and then trying again but never giving up on yourself or your dreams.
  So, here are the steps that can help you make progress and take that first step today:
  
  Become very clear on what you want and be as specific as possible.
  Come up with five things that you could do that could bring you closer to your goal (what you want).
  Pick ONE thing to pursue and commit to it – maybe find outside accountability.
  Try your ONE thing and really give it your all and see what happens – does it feel right, does it feel good? If yes – keep doing more of it and expand it. If not:
  Pick another thing from the list and repeat the process.
  
  Unless you try and give yourself a chance, you are running a risk of believing you are not capable and I refuse to work with that. There is no one size fits all model for finding your bliss or achieving your goal—there is only YOUR model. You are unique and special and you need to find YOUR way in the sea of “MY ways”.
  I would like to challenge you all: tell me what’s preventing you from moving forward toward the life you desire, and I will personally address it in the comments section below. See you there – it will be fun!
  READ THIS NEXT: 8 Ways To Improve Your Self-Esteem Naturally"