"I have the warmest memories of my mom whipping up batches of homemade nut butter as a kid. She was really ahead of her time now that I think back on it. She could have given us Jiff or Skippy, but always made her own! Even throughout college, my roommates and I would utilize my mom’s homemade peanut butter via care packages to power through long days of classes and late nights of studying. We would plunge our carrots and apples into the smoothest, creamiest texture imaginable. Trust me, once you taste the real stuff, you never want to go back to the jar! Thankfully, she shared her recipe and taught me how to make homemade nut butter to whip up for my own family…and to pass along to all of you!
  The nourishing benefits of all-natural nut butters is undeniable. There is a generous amount of muscle building protein (7-8 grams per serving), heart-healthy monounsaturated fats and polyunsaturated fats (known to decrease LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels), and nutrients such as vitamin E (antioxidant powers that support healthy skin and hair). But, when a jar of almond butter runs close to $8 (or even more if you want cashew!), it may not seem like a reasonable purchase. This is why my mom’s simplistic homemade nut butter recipe will save you money while still reaping all of the health benefits. You can use any type of nut—almond, peanut, cashew, etc. All you have to do is purchase your nuts, blend, and devour.
  What Do You Need?
  Chopper – Cuisinart or food processor that will chop nuts.
  Nuts – 6 ounces of high-quality nuts of your choice. I suggest cashew, almond, or peanuts that have been shelled. A blend of multiple nuts is also amazing!
  Optional Add-Ins – I prefer my nut butter straight up, but you can add in cinnamon, salt, sugar, and honey. I do suggest putting in any extra ingredients after the nut butter is blended and use a spoon to mix. Over processing can sometimes make the nut butter sticky. If you feel like you need to add something to your butter to make it more creamy, you can add a bit of water or coconut oil to taste. I have never had to do this, however based on what I have read, water will decrease the shelf life.
  Container –  Storage container or mason jars to seal up your creamy, delicious nut butter!
  Roasted vs. Raw Nuts
  I prefer my nut butter raw because essential vitamins and oils may be less beneficial when exposed to heat. Plus, that’s the way mom always made it! With that being said, even roasted nut butter is full of protein and rich in nutrients. So if your really craving that roasted nutty flavor, go for it!
  Roasting Direction: If you do want to roast your nuts, place six ounces of the nut of your choice on a cookie sheet covered in tin foil. Bake for 30-40 minutes at 170 degrees and stir half way through. Make sure to check on nuts every five minutes after the first 25 minutes in the oven to ensure they don’t burn!
  
  How To Eat Your Homemade Nut Butter
  This is pretty self-explanatory – dip, spread, or spoon! However, if you want to make a few healthy recipes with your homemade concoction, these are my favorites!
  
  Vegan Almond Butter Banana Oatmeal Smoothie
  Peanut Butter and Chocolate Energy Bars
  Apple Pie Almond Butter Chia Seed Pudding
  
  How To Store Homemade Nut Butter
  I store these butters in mason jars in the fridge and honestly, homemade nut butter is so rich and tasty it never lasts long at my house. I would estimate in a sealed container and refrigerated, your nut butter will keep up to three weeks. You can also freeze your nut butter in a stored container. The butter never really freezes completely solid because of the oils in the nuts, so the freezer is a great way to keep your nut butter fresh until your ready to use.
  I hope you enjoy your homemade nut butter and pass the directions along to your friends and family like my mom did for me!
  Here is more fun information!
  
  
  READ THIS NEXT: How To Make Your Own Almond Milk"