"This page may contain affiliate links, meaning at no additional cost to you, Get Healthy U may receive a commission if you click through and make a purchase.
  Years ago, when the Atkins diet was the craze, people became convinced that high protein diets were the key to weight loss. People began drastically reducing their carb intake and upping their intake of protein. Atkins followers ate lots of red meat and dairy products to load up on protein and many nutritionists became concerned about the amount of ingested saturated fat, lack of necessary nutrients and lack of fiber.  Today, people are more aware that red meat and saturated fat are linked to heart disease, but the ramifications of the Atkins school of thinking remain.
  So, how much is too much when it comes to protein? More protein doesn’t always mean better. It’s true that protein needs differ based on your health, body type and activity level. Made up of amino acids, protein helps build our muscles, bones, cartilage, skin, hair and blood. However, excess volumes of protein won’t necessarily help you develop oversized biceps or lose weight quick.  Furthermore, it’s what you are getting with your protein consumption that matters most. Take this example from the Harvard School of Public Health:
  A 6-ounce broiled porterhouse steak is a great source of protein—about 40 grams worth. But it also delivers about 38 grams of fat, 14 of them saturated. That’s more than 60 percent of the recommended daily intake for saturated fat.  The same amount of salmon gives you 34 grams of protein and 18 grams of fat, 4 of them saturated. A cup of cooked lentils has 18 grams of protein, but under 1 gram of fat.
  Your protein recommendation is easily attained through a balanced diet.  It’s true that protein can’t be stored in the body like fat and carbohydrates, so we need to replenish the supply every day. Yet the actual amount needed may surprise people accustomed to caveman sized steaks. A chicken breast and a few handfuls of nuts supply all the protein that most healthy American adults need in a day. The official RDA for adult men and women is 0.35 -. 5g for each lb of body weight per day, about 55-75 grams of protein for a 150 pound person. Some athletes will eat up to 1 gram of protein per pound for the best performance and health. (If you are trying to lose weight, base this calculation on your goal weight, not your current weight.)
  Choose good sources of animal protein. The best animal protein choices are fish, poultry, eggs and low fat dairy. If you love red meat, stick with the leanest cuts, choose moderate portion sizes and make it only an occasional part of your diet.
  You don’t need meat to get enough protein. You can get your protein from plant-based sources no doubt. Vegetarians do it everyday.  Great sources of plant protein include whole grains, nuts, seeds, sprouts, legumes and organic soy foods. Dark green, leafy vegetables, like kale, spinach, broccoli, asparagus and peas also have easily absorbed protein.  Sea plants such as algae, spirulina and chlorella are filled with protein and of course protein powders can be an easy supplement. (I love BiPro protein powder  as it’s all natural and doesn’t have artificial flavors or added sugar.)
  Related: Which Protein Powder Is Right For You?
  To assess how much protein is in the food you eat, here’s a great reference guide with approximate amounts of protein per serving:
  Beef
  
  Lean ground beef, 4 ounces  – 28 grams protein
  Steak, 6 ounces – 42 grams
  
  Poultry
  
  Chicken breast, 4 ounces  – 30 grams protein
  Pork chop  4 ounces – 25 grams protein
  
  Fish
  
  Most fish fillets, 3.5 ounces – 22 grams of protein
  Tuna,  4 ounce pouch –  20 grams of protein
  
  Eggs and Dairy
  
  Egg, large – 6 grams protein
  Milk, 1 cup – 8 grams
  Cottage cheese, ½ cup – 15 grams
  Yogurt, 1 cup – 8-12 grams (Greek yogurt has about 5 more grams)
  Soft cheeses 6 grams per ounce
  Medium and hard cheeses (Cheddar, Parmesan) – 7 -10 grams per ounce
  
  Beans (including soy)
  
  Tofu, ½ cup 10 grams protein
  Soy milk, 1 cup – 6 -10 grams
  Most beans (black, pinto, lentils, etc) about 7-10 grams protein per half cup of cooked beans
  Soy beans, ½ cup cooked – 14 grams protein
  Peas, ½ cup cooked – 8 grams
  
  Nuts and Seeds
  
  Peanut butter, 2 Tablespoons – 8 grams protein
  Almonds, ¼ cup – 8 grams
  Peanuts, ¼ cup – 9 grams
  Cashews, ¼ cup – 5 grams
  Pecans, ¼ cup – 2.5 grams
  Sunflower seeds, ¼ cup – 6 grams
  Pumpkin seeds, ¼ cup – 8 grams
  Flax seeds – ¼ cup – 8 grams
  
  Vegetables: 
  
  Spinach, 1-2 cups – 5.3 grams of protein
  Asparagus and broccoli 2 cups  – 4.6 grams
  Collard greens and Brussels sprouts 2 cups  -4 grams
  Green peas, 1 cup  – 8.6 grams protein
  
   
  The Power of Protein was created by the Center for Weight Loss Surgery
  READ THIS NEXT: Vegetarians Can Easily Get Enough Protein"