"The skin is the body’s largest and fastest-growing organ, and it’s also the most visible one at that, so it only makes sense that we go out of our way to treat it right. Many of us use trial and error to find beauty products that work best to clear our complexion and brighten our skin tone, along with products to improve others parts of this organ system, like the hair and nails. But we often find that no one product can do the trick, and so our money goes wasted as we search for the cure. Natural beauty treatments are the way to go, since most of the ingredients can be found right in your fridge or pantry, sans harsh and controversial ingredients, making the DIY experience informative, fun, easy, healthy and wasteless. From condiments to fruit, here’s a list of natural treatments for you to try.
  For The Face:
  
  Food Facial Mask
  
  
  Ready to rub some breakfast on your face? Honey, plain yogurt, an egg white and cucumber juice combine in this recipe to make a lovely toning facial mask that will leave your skin graciously glowing. The lactic acid in the yogurt will tighten your pores to reduce fine lines and wrinkles, while also smoothing and gently exfoliating your skin.
  
  DIY Microdermabrasion
  
  Microdermabrasion machines exfoliate the skin while removing superficial layers of dry, dead skin cells, but the procedure can be costly. Head to your kitchen and pull out the baking soda, which is a naturally effective ingredient for pulling off dead skin cells to make your skin glow at a fraction of the cost. For this recipe, all you have to do is wet your face with warm water, massage some baking soda into your hands and apply evenly to your face for 3 minutes.
  Related: 4 Chemicals To Ditch From Your Makeup Bag
  For The Body: 
  
  Vanilla Latte Sugar Scrub Recipe
  
  Since the verdict’s out that sugar in the body is bad, it’s time to use that leftover jar for something else. To tighten and smooth your skin, mix equal parts sugar with olive oil and massage in for a couple of minutes. Your skin doesn’t metabolize and store glucose or fructose like your fat cells do, so get ahead and indulge in this natural and effective beauty treatment. Add in rose essential oil to boost your glow.
  
  Homemade Body Butter Recipe
  
  
  Coconut oil is all the rage, and for good reason. From being used as a cooking oil to a toothpaste, it’s an all-natural miracle worker. It also just so happens to serve as a wonderful body butter, too. This recipe requires just one ingredient, but you can add a teaspoon of vitamin E oil and a few drops of your favorite essential oil for fragrance, too.
  For The Hair:
  
  Natural Hair Conditioner
  
  Hair masks can be pricey, but not this one. To strengthen your hair and make it shiny and smooth, simply mix one banana and one avocado and puree until smooth. Add your favorite essential oils to give the mask a delicious fragrance. Comb it through clean, damp hair and leave on for 15 minutes before rinsing.
  
  Beach Waves Texturizing Spray
  
  Skip the store if beach waves are on your brain, and instead opt for kosher or sea salt. All you have to do is fill a spray bottle with about 3 ounces of water and 3 teaspoons salt, and a couple squirts of hair gel and shake it up. Spray onto your hair and scrunch with your hands. The coarse salt will stick to your strands to give it texture and volume.
  For The Nails: 
  
  Nail Moisturizer
  
  
  If you’re experiencing brittle nails that constantly break, try mixing 3 parts olive oil with 1 part lemon juice in a bowl, heating to just above body temperature and then soaking your fingertips in the solution for 10 minutes. Olive oil moisturizes, while lemon juice, rich in antioxidant vitamin C, works to strengthen the nails and remove stains.
  
  Toenail Fungus Remover
  
  It’s not the most glamorous treatment out there, but it’s a necessity to get rid of toenail fungus. Apple cider vinegar is a great cure. Simply mix one part ACV and one part Epsom salts with six parts hot water. Once the water reaches a warm temperature, submerge your feet for 30 minutes. Repeat twice daily until the fungus dies.
  READ THIS NEXT: 6 Natural Ways To Look Younger"