"It can be hard to whip up dinner without cranking up the oven on a regular basis—especially if roasting, broiling and baking are your go-tos. But when you’re trying to stay cool, it’s best to avoid the sweat and take advantage of a plethora of no-oven recipes that are just as sensationally delicious. From low-maintenance and low-heat on the stove to simply raw, the following 9 recipes won’t boil you over, but are sure satisfy your taste buds!Healthy Salmon Avocado Boats by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  
  
  Whip up these extra yummy and good for you salmon avocado boats. They make for a super fast dinner and no oven heating required!
  Related: 11 Weeknight Summer Grilling RecipesRaw Cream of Spinach Soup by Epicurious
  
  
  
  Though the concept seems rather simple, this soup is packed with depth, like herbs, garlic and jalapeño. If you have an electric juicer to make the tomato or carrot juice, go for it! Otherwise, incorporate freshly made veggie juice from your local juice bar.Crunchy Cashew Thai Quinoa Salad with Ginger Peanut Dressing by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  
  
  Keep it cool on a summer night with a salad. While this sort of meal is often a lunchtime favorite, the quinoa will add plenty of depth to fill you up. Featuring carrots, cabbage, cilantro, cashews, red pepper, and onion, it’s more like a hearty veggie bowl than anything else!Garlic Shrimp on Yellow Squash Noodles by Get Healthy U
  
  
  
  When pasta seems far too heavy to consume on a summer night, this lighter version is the perfect low-carb option. This meal is super simple and light. Utilizing an array of fresh vegetables and savory shrimp, you simply sautee everything up and get to eating!Turkey Taco Fiesta Cups by Get Healthy U
  
  
  
  It doesn’t get much easier than these low-carb tacos. The only cooking required is placing oil, garlic, and onion in a pan on medium heat and cooking for 2 minutes before adding ground turkey until it’s cooked through. Use butter head lettuce for the cups, then add red peppers, fresh cilantro, jicama, black beans, Greek yogurt, fresh salsa and a shredded cheese of your choice.Raw Vegan Pizza with Red Pepper Flax Crust by One Green Planet
  
  
  
  Pizza without the oven? Can it be? This raw version may sound intimidating, but there’s plenty of flavor happening here thanks to the red pepper flax seed crust topped with fresh tomato sauce, veggies and a yummy non-dairy cheese made with pine nuts, nutritional yeast and garlic.Thai Spring Rolls With Peanut Dipping Sauce by Heavenlynn Healthy
  
  
  
  While one might not cut it for dinner, making a plate full of spring rolls will certainly fill you up without the guilt! With no cooking required, this yummy recipe is as fresh as it gets. The homemade dipping sauce adds a richness to the dish without racking up the calorie count as well.Lemon and Basil Chicken Veggie Kebabs by Get Healthy U
  
  
  
  This kebab recipe can be whipped up in no time. Utilizing a healthy marinade of oil, lemon juice, lemon zest, garlic, mustard, salt, pepper, crushed red pepper, soy sauce, and basil, the chicken and vegetables are steeped in a refreshing flavor you won’t be able to resist. Serve with a quinoa salad to make it a full meal.Vegan Enchiladas With Chunky Salsa, Cheesy Sauce And Spicy Nut Meat by One Green Planet
  
  
  
  If you’re vegan, you’ll likely love this. Not vegan? You might not even notice! A chunky salsa of avocado, tomato, onion, and cilantro complement a walnut taco meat that’s spiced with cumin and coriander. Wrapped in raw tomato-corn tortillas, a delicious creamy cashew cheese sauce covers the whole concoction, making for a meal from heaven.
  READ THIS NEXT: 13 Healthy Barbecue Side Dishes"