"This challenge is sponsored by Wahl Massagers.
  Guess what my friends, walking works. Study after study proves that people who walk regularly stay more youthful, stronger and happier into old age. And walking for weight loss is a great added benefit as well.
  Whether you like to walk on a machine, around your workplace, or your neighborhood, walking can and should easily be incorporated into your daily life.
  I’m a huge fan myself. I try to walk a few miles at least 6 days a week and notice the difference it has made on my physical and mental health.
  
  If you are of the mindset that walking isn’t a good enough workout for you or walking can’t help you lose weight, let me prove you wrong.
  If you are doing more sitting on the couch than moving, walking may be the easiest and healthiest way for you to get started with fitness. And if you are already exercising, a daily walk may help you burn a few extra calories and lighten your stress levels.
  Related: Beginner’s Guide To Power Walking
  Here is why walking is one of the best forms of exercise out there:
  
  It’s a great calorie burner
  It’s low impact and easier on your joints
  It requires very little equipment (just a pair of tennis shoes!)
  It can be an effective and sustainable way to lose weight
  It can be done anywhere you go
  It can be continued into old age
  
  Not only that, studies show walking comes with a whole host of health benefits including:
  
  Reducing your risk of heart disease, cancer, stroke and chronic disease
  Lowering cholesterol
  Reducing body fat
  Improving circulation
  Alleviating depression and fatigue
  And so much more!
  
  Which is why we are so excited to bring you the 14-Day Power Walking Challenge!
  In this 14-day walking program, we are challenging you to get outdoors (or indoors) and get your steps in. As the two weeks go by, we slowly increase the amount of time you spend walking each week. But you can decide if you’d like to do it all in one chunk, break it up or switch days around based on your schedule. Bottom line: get it done!
  During this challenge, we’ll also be sending you emails with our best tips and info so you can make the most of your new power walking routine.
  
    
  New to walking? Here are four things you need to know to get started:
  1. Pay Attention to Recovery
  Being active is great for your health, but it can also take a toll on your body, especially if you’re just getting started. Be mindful of the fact that you may experience mild soreness or muscle fatigue during this challenge. One way to alleviate this is to make massage part of your daily routine. I don’t have to twist your arm on that one, do I?
  
  In addition to relieving tension, massage can help reduce pain, decrease swelling and improve blood circulation to promote the healing of soft-tissue damage, bruising and muscle fatigue. It also helps improve flexibility and mobility faster, while reducing overall stiffness – score!
  One of the most powerful handheld massagers on the market and one that I personally use is the Wahl Deep Tissue Massager. It offers customized relief through a combination of interchangeable heads and variable intensity control.
  Simply, use it before or after your walks to target large muscle groups or pin-pointed problem areas and aid in muscle recovery.
  
  2. Hydrate!
  When it comes to any exercise, hydration is key! And if you’re taking that exercise to the sunny outdoors, hydration is even MORE important.
  To replenish the water lost due to sweat and effort, good hydration means that you’re drinking water before, during and after your workout.
  Need a few reasons to chug that H2O? The effects of dehydration as related to exercise include:
  
  reduced energy
  muscle cramps
  dizziness
  reduced performance
  reduced caloric burn
  
  Want to maximize your walk, aid in your weight loss efforts and avoid those symptoms and more? It’s as simple as sipping frequently!
  3. Find Good Shoes
  
  One of the great things about walking is that there is very little equipment needed. In fact, a good pair of tennis shoes is really all you need.
  But just because you can skimp on the quantity of equipment doesn’t mean you can skimp on quality. Make sure the shoes you’re wearing are supportive, comfortable and durable.
  Poor shoes can lead to injury, blisters, bruising, plantar fasciitis and more.
  Learn more about finding a proper walking shoe here.
  4. Create a Plan
  So many people quit on their fitness routine solely because they didn’t make a realistic plan ahead of time.
  The good news? We’ve already done this for you!
  Simply download our 14-Day Power Walking Calendar and the only thing you have to do is follow it!
  
    
  Happy walking!
  READ THIS NEXT: 28-Day Veggie Challenge"