"So you’re having a baby. First things first – congratulations! Now, let’s talk about your health and fitness. Truth be told, you have every right to spend the next few months relaxing and preparing for the joy and exhaustion ahead. But the other truth you might want to know is this – you will want to keep moving! My mother’s generation was told to rest and stay still to give the baby every advantage of health and well-being. Fortunately, medical science has learned that the baby and mom will BOTH benefit when the mom continues to exercise and move her body. Perhaps the most gentle and beneficial ways to do this is with yoga! Yes – pregnant women can be yogis. Especially if you have been doing yoga already, you will want to keep it up. Research shows that prenatal yoga is safe and can have benefits that include:
  
  Better sleep
  Decreased low back pain
  Increase in strength and flexibility (two things needed to give birth!)
  Reduced stress and anxiety
  Decreased risk of preterm labor and hypertension
  
  Of course you will want to check with your doctor first to make sure this is right for you, but if you are given the go-ahead, here are some guidelines to keep in mind for prenatal yoga practicing.
  Avoid the super intense. Hatha yoga is a great choice. Easy vinyasa flows are good as well. Ashtanga and Bikram should be put on hold until you are back in your normal body.
  Avoid the super hot. A warm room is great, but overheating is dangerous to both you and your baby. Rather than looking for a specific temperature, listen to your own body.
  Drink plenty of water. This is for every yogi out there, but even more so for those of you carrying another human inside! You need water and he or she needs water, too.
  Twist gently or not at all. You full of “relaxin,” hormone that makes you more flexible. You will want to be careful about going too far and injuring yourself
  Skip the inversions. In addition, any pose that doesn’t feel right should be avoided. Obviously the bigger you get the more you’ll have to discern. For example, at some point lying on your belly is just not going to happen! In addition, lying flat on your back when you are very pregnant is not recommended.
  
  In light of all of this information, you can look around for a yoga class that works for you or you can just stay right here at Get Healthy U. We’ve come up with an excellent prenatal yoga flow that will keep your moving as you keep growing. So get on your yoga mat, relax, and go with the flow!
  For each of the following poses, hold for the given time specified or for as long as it feels good to you.
  STANDING MOUNTAIN POSE
  
  1) Stand tall with feet a few inches apart and toes spread on the mat.
  2) Hold arms alongside your body, palms facing forward, shoulders relaxed down.
  3) Relax and breathe slowly.
  Stay for 30 seconds or more if desired.
  STANDING SIDE BENDS
  
  1) Stand tall with feet and legs together and reach both arms straight up overhead as you inhale.
  2) Lower your right arm down the right side of your body and exhale as you lengthen the left arm over the head, bending body gently to the right.
  3) Inhale to return arms overhead to center and exhale as you repeat on the left side.
  Repeat side-to-side bends slowly 3 times for each side.
  WARRIOR 1
  
  1) From a standing position, step your left foot to the back of your mat and lower the inside of your foot so that your back foot is at an angle.
  2) Bend your right knee 90 degrees and straighten your back leg.
  3) Reach arms overhead and keep torso facing the front.
  4) Relax shoulders and breathe gently in and out.
  Hold 30 seconds and switch sides.
  WARRIOR 2
  
  1) From a standing position, step your left foot to the back of your mat and lower the inside of your foot so that your back foot is at an angle.
  2) Bend your right knee 90 degrees and straighten your back leg.
  3) Reach right arm straight over right leg and left arm straight over left leg.
  4) Relax shoulders and breathe gently in and out.
  Hold 30 seconds and switch sides.
  BUTTERFLY POSE
  
  1) Start in a seated position and bring the souls of your feet together to touch.
  2) Clasp hands around feet and gently bring chest forward and down until you feel a stretch in your back.
   Hold and breathe for 30 seconds.
  SEATED STRADDLE POSE
  
  1) Begin in a seated position with legs stretched out open to the sides as far as you can and toes pointed up.
  2) Place hand on the floor in front of you and slowly walk your hands forward until forearms are resting on the floor.
  3) Keep chest lifted and spine long as you breathe.
  Hold for 30 seconds.
  This flow is complete. If you feel good and want to go through it a second time, start again at the top!"