"It’s strawberry season which means it’s time to liven up your typical dishes with these bright red and juicy gems. If you want sweet, tart, healthy and refreshing, you’re bound to stock up on them at the farmers’ market and beyond, but as you well know, with anything fresh comes an expiration date. Strawberries spoil even faster than bananas, which may cause you to panic once a day or two has gone by and you still haven’t used up your expensive bushel of fresh berries, but don’t worry! From how to prolong their freshness to how to incorporate them into a variety of dishes, we’ve got you covered.
  How To Keep Berries Fresh
  White vinegar is a fresh berry’s best friend. Once you bring them home, it’s important to kill any spores on the fruit, so place them in a large bowl and wash with 1 cup of white vinegar and 8 cups of water. Let the berries sit in the bath, moving them around gently to dislodge any dirt, and allowing the vinegar to kill spores and bacteria. Next, drain the strawberries in a colander and rinse well. Dry by wrapping gently in a paper towel, then store in a sealed container lined with dry paper towels.
  Related: 9 Hacks To Keep Your Food Fresh
  You can also do a quick hot-water bath of 30 seconds in 125-degree water to kill bacteria, or opt for a produce cleaner, such as Rebel Green, that will elongate their life in the refrigerator.
  Ways To Use Your Fresh Strawberries
  
  Strawberry Bruschetta
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: HappyHealthyMama.com
  Tomatoes are typically the shining star of this Italian appetizer, but substituting strawberries will add a whole new refreshing tangy sweetness that simply screams summer.
  
  Strawberry Shortcake Oatmeal
  
  Oatmeal is a breakfast favorite no matter the time of year, but given summer’s abundance of strawberries, it’s the perfect time to sweeten up your morning meal with this innovative, dessert-like recipe.
  
  Strawberry Spinach Salad with Chicken
  
  Fruit in salads is a wonderful wakeup call for your palate when you’re simply getting bored of veggies-on-veggies.
  
  Strawberry Chocolate Chip Muffins
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: ChocolateCoveredKatie.com
  Are you a fan of chocolate covered strawberries? Then you’ll love these healthy muffins featuring whole-grains, fresh strawberries and mini chocolate chips.
  
  Roasted Strawberry, Avocado, and Mozzarella Grilled Cheese
  
  An elevated version of your favorite childhood comfort food, this recipe utilizes strawberries in an innovated way by roasting them. You’ll scarf this baby down before you have time for an Instagram picture.
  
  Strawberry Basil Lemonade
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: Wha’sGabyCooking.com
  Grab yourself some lemons, strawberries and a handful of fresh basil and make this refreshing beverage—or turn it into a cocktail for the weekend!
  
  Strawberry Smoothie Popsicles
  
  Skip the store-bought stuff ridden with chemicals and dyes and opt for REAL strawberry in your popsicles to cool off this summer.
  
  Creamy Strawberry Coconut Fruit Dip
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: FitFoodieFinds.com
  Finger foods are all the rage come sunny weather when you just want to pack up and hit the beach all day. But most dips you find for your veggies or fruit are laden with unnecessary calories. Opt for this healthy and delicious version instead!
  
  Strawberry Mint Dressing
  
  Sometimes it’s the dressing that makes all the difference to salads, but if you’re loading up your greens with dressings from the grocery store, you’re probably piling on more fat and calories than you should be. Try this strawberry mint dressing to liven up your lunchtime treat without weighing you down.
  
  Chocolate-Strawberry Truffle Pie
  
  There’s no better feeling than diving into a rich dessert that’s actually very healthy. This pie features agave, cashew cream and strawberries. If you want it anytime of year, opt for frozen berries like this recipe suggests.
  
  Homemade Cliff Bars
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: ChocolateCoveredKatie.com
  When you’re on-the-go, a healthy Cliff Bar may be your go-to for fueling up. But if you have time and some tasty strawberries that need to be used up, try making this homemade version.
  
  Strawberry Coconut Chia Seed Banana Bread
  
  Find a reason to jump out of bed early in the morning to make this deliciously healthy recipe. Featuring a fantastic list of ingredients like banana, dark brown sugar, nonfat plain Greek yogurt, almond milk, strawberries, raspberries, coconut and chia seeds, each slice only has 160 calories.
  
  Spinach and Strawberry Protein Smoothie
  
  Whether you want to cool off midday from the summer’s heat or simply power up with some protein and energy in the morning or before a workout, this spinach, almond butter and hemp protein powder smoothie featuring strawberries is a healthy choice. Opt for fresh berries if you can—there will be plenty of time to use the frozen stuff come fall!
  
  Strawberry Salsa
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GimmeSomeOven.com
  Salsa is the perfect topping or simple snack no matter what time of year it is, but when it comes to summer, this is your time to switch it up by incorporating strawberries. This specific recipe features five sensationally-delicious ingredients: strawberries, jalapeño, red onion, fresh cilantro and lime.
  
  Lentil and Strawberry Salad with Pepper-Crusted Tuna
  
  This meal just screams summer. Swap out your typical salad greens for hearty lentils, but keep it light with the sweetness from the strawberries. A simple layer of pepper-crusted tuna tops it all off.
  
  Summer Berry Crostini
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: AmbitiousKitchen.com
  Make a gourmet snack that’s just as pleasing to the eyes as it is to the tastebuds. This crostini is topped with lemon ricotta, berries and honey.
  
   Strawberry and Watermelon Gazpacho
  
  Gazpacho just screams summer. And this beautifully pink bowl of refreshing soup featuring strawberries and watermelon may just be your new favorite recipe.
  
  Probiotic Jello Snacks Recipe
  
  Jello can be for adults, too, especially this simple and healthy recipe that will keep your digestion on track. Have some fresh strawberries? Throw ‘em in the mix!
  
  Strawberry Shortcake
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: LaaLoosh.com
  Fresh is always best, so top your delectable dessert with nature’s candy. These particular shortcakes are packed with fiber but are still deliciously light and tender.
  
  No-Bake Strawberry Bars
  
  Perfect for a light summer snack, these healthy bars feature fresh summer strawberries, hearty oats and no refined sugars or artificial flavors.
  
  Rainbow Fruit Kabobs
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: ChocolateCoveredKatie.com
  Whether it’s your sweet tooth that’s calling or just a desire to make a kabob, this is the perfect healthy and refreshing combo.
  
  Strawberry Zucchini Noodles
  
  Tossed with balsamic cashew cream, this is a healthy no-cook dinner that’s vegan friendly and under 300 calories!
  
  Strawberry Balsamic Flatbread
  
  We love finding healthy recipes for pizza. Add some tartness to your pie by topping it with delectable strawberries.
  READ THIS NEXT: 11 Weeknight Summer Grilling Recipes"