"Hibernation. It’s meant for the bears. But let’s admit it, sometimes it seems pretty appealing. The crazy holiday schedules are behind us but the cold weather has settled in. Snuggling up during these cold, winter days and reading, watching old movies or doing just about anything that involves wearing sweatpants and fluffy socks seems awfully tempting. The problem is that while your Netflix is sucking you in, the days have actually already started getting longer. Before you know it, you’ll be swapping those sweatpants out for a swimsuit and wondering how to get rid of back fat. Suddenly all of that sitting around is going to seem like a really bad idea. Have no fear, friends! There is still time to salvage a swimsuit body. We’ve put together a workout plan to help get you in shape for that sunny, spring getaway whether that means a swimsuit on the beach or shorts and shopping!
  This spring break challenge will focus mainly on toning your thighs and tightening your tummy—the two areas you’re about to uncover for the first time in a long time. Of course, a cardio element is included to help you burn off extra calories and shed a few pounds before your flight to paradise.
  Here’s the plan:
  
  Each exercise set will come in pairs: first a strength move, then a cardio move.
  Perform each set three times before moving to the next pair.
  The entire workout should take you less than 30 minutes to finish.
  
  Set 1
  Pass Through Lunge
   
  
  A) Stand with feet hip distance apart. Step right foot behind and lower slowly to a lunge for until both legs are at a 90-degree angle.
  B) Then lift right leg up and let it float slowly to the front lowering again to 90-degrees.
  C) Now push right foot up again and float it behind you as you did the first time. Continue floating the right leg as the left leg stayed stationary.
  Repeat for 10 reps then switch legs. After the left leg, move directly to the next exercise.
  High Knees
  
  A) Start standing with feet hip distance apart.
  B) Lift up one knee as high as it will go and raise the opposite arm, then switch quickly. Continue alternating arms and legs. You will be running in place with knees lifting in front.
  Run for 30 seconds. Then go back to the Pass Through Lunge and repeat this series two more times for a total of three sets before moving to the next exercise set.
  Set 2
  Side Plank Crunch
  
  A) Come into a side forearm plank by lying in one long line on one side stacking your elbow under your shoulder and keeping your forearm on mat perpendicular to your body. Stack your feet and stay in one long line as you engage your core and lift your hips up forming a side forearm plank. Lift your top arm towards the ceiling.
  B) Bring the elbow on your top arm and knee on your top leg in to tap elbow and knee together, then reach both long and repeat the tap working your obliques and entire core with these crunches.
  Perform 12 crunches, then switch to the other side. After both sides, move on to split jumps.
  Split Jumps
  
  A) Stand tall with your feet hip distance apart. Hands are in front of the chest hand on fist. Take a large step forward with one foot and lower your body toward the floor. Both legs should be bent at a 90-degree angle at the bottom of the lunge.
  B) Lower the back knee slightly and jump to switch the legs coming into a lunge on other leg. Repeat.
  Perform for 30 seconds. Go back to the side plank crunch and repeat this series two more times then move to the next exercise set.
  Set 3
  Plié Squat
  
  A) Stand with feet slightly wider than shoulder distance apart and toes turned out. Bend knees lowering torso keeping your back straight and abs tight.
  B) Squeeze your glutes and come to standing position.
  Perform 20 Plie Squats then move to Run the Tires.
  Run The Tires
  
  A) From standing, hop to left, landing on left foot with right knee raised toward chest. Take 3 quick, small steps to right, lifting knees high and pumping arms in opposition.
  B) Land on right foot with left knee raised. Continue moving from side to side saying in your head “1-2-3, 1-2-3-”
  Perform for 30 seconds then go back to the plié squat and perform this series two more times through before moving to the next exercise.
  Set 4
  In In Out Out Plank
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  A)  Begin in a forearm plank position with your body in a straight line.
  B)  Step your left foot out to the left.
  C)  Step your right foot out to the right.
  D)  Step your left foot back to center.
  E)  Step your right foot back to center.
  Perform 12 reps leading with the left foot, then 12 reps leading with the right foot. Move directly to the burpee.
  Burpee
  
  A) Start in a plank position with arms and legs long, hands shoulder distance apart.
  B) Walk or jump both feet between your hands coming into a low squat. Jump straight up as high as possible, land, and come back to your plank position.
  Perform for 30 seconds then return to the in in out out plank. Repeat the pair two more times.
  Set 5
  Fire Hydrant
  
  A) Begin on all fours.
  B) Using the outer thigh muscles and glutes lift one knee out and up keeping your knee bent at a 90-degree angle.  Lower your leg and repeat on the other side.
  Perform 15 lifts per leg.
  Butt Kicks
  
  A) Start standing tall and bring one heel off the floor towards your glutes, the opposite hand comes up towards you shoulder like running arms, then switch to the other side.
  B) This exercise is working your hamstrings so you should feel this in the glutes and the back of the legs as you pull the heel in.
  Perform for 30 seconds then return to the fire hydrant and repeat the pair two more rounds.
  Add this workout three to four times into your week to see results by spring break!"