"Are you looking for a new way to blast off that backside? Tired of the same old lower body workouts? While routine can keep us going, the same routine can stall our progress. The problem with the same workout over and over is that as we grow accustomed to to the moves, our body gets bored and produces less in terms of results. In addition, the same workouts can foster less intense or less frequent workouts. When this happens, what you need is a new way to tackle an old problem, and in this case we’re talking about that droopy derriere! This stability ball workout brings a fresh take on old stand-by methods, while adding the dimension of instability into the mix. Twice through this routine and not only will your rear end be on fire, you’re on your way to a perkier behind!
  Here’s how it works:
  
  To choose the proper size stability ball, sit on top of the ball and look for your knees to be in line with you hip bones or slightly below them.
  Perform each exercise for 12-15 repetitions.
  When you finish, start at the top and go through the routine once more for maximum results!
  
  Stability Ball Lunge
  
  A) Stand tall with stability ball approximately 2-3 feet behind you.
  B) Balancing in your right foot, place your left shoelace onto the ball behind you.
  C) Bend your front leg as you roll the ball away from you with your left foot. Your front leg should go to a 90 degree angle.
  D) Pull your back leg in to start position.
   Do 12 reps on each leg
  Stability Ball Glute Pike
  
  A) Begin lying on back, arms by side and feet on top of stability ball.
  B) Squeeze glutes and abs and lift body up so you are in a straight line with only shoulders and head relaxed on mat.  Pull the ball toward glutes until knees are bent, then slowly press legs straight.
  C) Return body slowly to mat.
  Do 12 reps
  
  Stability Ball Single Leg Lift and Lower
  
  1) Begin lying on back, arms by side with right foot on top of stability ball and left leg extended into the air.
  2) Press foot into ball as you lift your body up so you are in a straight line with only shoulders and head relaxed on mat. Left leg doesn’t move.
  3) Slowly return to floor.
  Do 12 reps on each leg
   Stability Ball Squat
  
  A) Stand with feet shoulder with apart and hold ball between hands above your head.
  B) Sit hips down and back until knees are bent 90 degrees. Keep abdominals tight and knees behind toes.
  C) Squeeze glutes to press back to standing position.
  Do 12 reps
  Take a quick water break and start back at the top, going through each exercise one more time.
  READ THIS NEXT: No-Squat, No-Lunge Booty Workout"