"Maybe you’ve heard the hype about high-intensity interval training (HIIT) workouts and how they improve your cardiovascular fitness while helping you build lean muscle and burn fat.
  Guess what? It’s not hype! HIIT exercises work.
  Research shows that shorter, high-intensity workouts can do more for your health than longer, more leisurely workouts. HIIT also helps burn more fat at a faster rate.
  You can improve your heart health and significantly reduce your risk for metabolic syndrome, as well as obesity, high triglycerides, low levels of HDL cholesterol, high blood pressure and high blood sugar.
  These high-intensity workouts can be done in 30-minutes or less, and they’re stinkin’ fun. Build muscle, burn calories, and boost metabolism all in one workout!
  If you’re new to this type of workout, know that HIIT doesn’t need to be intimidating: it’s all about knowing how HIIT works and how it can transform your body.Use the links to navigate our high-intensity interval training guide:
  
  What is HIIT?
  HIIT Workouts For Beginners
  Benefits of HIIT
  HIIT FAQsWhat is HIIT?
  High-intensity interval training (HIIT) is a type of workout where you give maximum effort through quick, intense bursts of exercise followed by short recovery periods.
  HIIT workouts train and condition both your aerobic and anaerobic energy systems. This kind of exercise gets your heart rate up and improves your cardiovascular fitness level while burning more fat and calories in less time.
  HIIT: A Go-To Solution for Lack of Time
  What I always say is: Work smarter, not longer. With HIIT, you don’t have to carve out two hours for a workout—you can get an effective heart-pumping workout that combines cardio and strength training into just 10, 20 or 30-minutes.
  
  HIIT Exercises For Beginners
  
  If you want the ease of doing HIIT exercises at home, you’re in the right place. Below, we’ve created two 10-minute Tabata HIIT workouts for beginners that you can follow along with.
  There are many ways to create high-intensity intervals by changing the timing of the work vs. rest. My absolute favorite type of HIIT is Tabata Training.
  Tabata-style takes high-intensity training to another level with workouts comprised of 20 seconds of all-out effort followed by 10 seconds of recovery, eight cycles in a row—a total of four minutes.
  10-Minute Tabata HIIT Workout For Beginners
  This quick 10-minute HIIT workout for beginners contains two tabatas. Each tabata has 8 rounds varying between two moves. Watch the video below and follow along with our beginner HIIT workout.
  
  Tabata #1: 8 rounds
  
  Squat Punch
  Plank To Chair Squat
  
  Tabata #2: 8 rounds
  
  Split Jumps
  Push-Up Ts10-Minute Tabata HIIT Workout
  Try another 10-minute tabata HIIT workout below! Again, this workout contains two tabatas, each 8 rounds.
  
  Tabata #1: 8 rounds
  
  Cross-Behind Lunge with Lateral Raise
  Squat and Dumbbell Squat
  
  Tabata #2: 8 rounds
  
  Push-Up Jacks
  Squat Curl Press
  
  Want even more HIIT workout inspiration? Watch this 30-second video to learn what my HIIT program on Get Healthy U TV can do for your body! 
  Select from any of the seven fun classes and fire up your metabolism. Keep in mind, quicker doesn’t mean easier—we are talking about high-intensity here and that means a sweaty, heart-pumping, challenging workout where you push yourself!  CHALLENGE TO CHANGE, I always say!Benefits of HIIT Exercises
  HIIT workouts have a number of benefits including:
  
  Improved cardiovascular fitness
  Build lean muscle and lose fat
  Retain muscle
  Condition anaerobic and aerobic energy
  Easy to do anywhere, no equipment required
  Burn more calories while at rest
  Increase metabolism and endurance
  Lots of variety
  Quick workout – 30 minutes or less!
  
  
  
  HIIT vs interval training
  HIIT workouts are different from other types of interval training because the high-intensity intervals involve your MAX effort and not just a higher heart rate. The high-intensity part of HIIT involves giving it your all for a certain amount of seconds (duration can vary).
  Who is HIIT for?
  HIIT can be for all types of fitness levels and abilities; you just may not use all your effort when you first start.
  HIIT helps people significantly improve their cardiovascular fitness, endurance, and fat loss without losing the muscle mass they already have. If you want to try something new, want more from your workout or are a diehard fitness enthusiast, HIIT is for you.
  Nonetheless, if you’re just starting a workout routine or have been sidelined for some time due to injury or life, the key to success lies in doing the moves with modifications at your own pace.
  HIIT should be intense, but pushing too hard too quickly can result in injuries and other setbacks.
  My suggestions: listen to your body, use modifications where necessary, choose good form over speed and ease into how many HIIT workouts you do a week.
  Related: 12-Minute HIIT Workout For Bad Knees
  How often should I do HIIT?
  If you are new to HIIT, just try one workout per week. If you are accustomed to working out, you can do HIIT three to five times max per week.
  How many calories do HIIT workouts burn?
  About ten calories per minute! (But wear a heart rate monitor for exact feedback.)
  Since HIIT workouts rev up your metabolism, you will continue to torch those calories long after you have finished your HIIT workout!
  Safety Tips for HIIT Workouts
  
  With the increased intensity, you can cause more wear and tear on your body, so make sure you follow these HIIT safety tips:
  
  Always warm up and cool down for at least five minutes before and after your HIIT workouts.
  Take time to recover from your HIIT workouts. Take at least one to two days off per week from HIIT workouts.
  Don’t push yourself if you are already sore.
  Start slowly and build your endurance and ability.
  Choose to do the modifications of movements that are too challenging for you.
  If you ever experience chest pain or difficulty breathing during your HIIT workouts, start to cool down.
  Don’t stop completely because your blood can pool in your extremities and cause lightheadedness, just stop the intensity and cool down slowly.
  
  Belly Blaster HIIT Workout
  Now let’s try some HIIT! If you are new to HIIT, watch your heart rate, stop when you need to, and don’t do the plyometrics (or jumping movements) just yet.
  Ideally, you should be able to exercise for 20 minutes without any issues before trying a HIIT workout.
  Working out with high intensity intervals—short periods of time where your heart rate really gets up there and you find yourself panting through your mouth and needing recovery —shakes up your metabolism and forces your body to go into sugar and fat stores to find the necessary energy to not only get through the interval, but also for several hours following the workout.
  In other words, in order for your body to come back to its normal place (“homeostasis”), it requires extra time and extra oxygen which leads to extra fat burn. It’s that simple. This workout will provide you with great ideas for these kind of intervals. All you have to do is work hard enough to make them effective.
  Strengthening The Transverse Abdominus (The “TVA”)
  HIIT can be fantastic for losing belly fat because it helps to strengthen the transverse abdominus. And while spot reducing is a myth, when you strengthen the TVA, your core looks all-around slimmer!
  The transverse abdominus is the muscle that sits deep and low in your belly. By taking time to strengthen this muscle properly, you are creating a built-in “corset” for your body that holds the abs in tight and protects your low back. 
  This workout will give you some great belly fat blasting moves to strengthen your TVA mixed in with some cardio moves for that extra high intensity boost.
  
  Try this Belly Fat Blasting HIIT Workout 
  Remember, the key to your results is dependent on your effort. For each exercise you will go hard for 20 seconds, then rest for 10 seconds before going to the next move. Repeat the entire sequence again for a total of 8 intervals.
  BLOCK 1 [20 seconds each/10 seconds in between. Repeat 2x]
  1. Skiers
  
  Skiers Exercise
  
  Stand with feet together and knees bent holding bent elbows next to your side.
  Keep feet together and jump turn so hips and toes point right.
  Now jump feet together and turn so hips and toes point left.
  Continue to switch jumping right and left keeping legs tightly together and arms and waist turning as if you are holding ski poles.
  
  2. Medicine Ball Toe Touches
  
  Medicine Ball Toe Touches
  (If you don’t have a ball use a weight or nothing at all!)
  
  Begin on your back with legs together straight up above hips holding the medicine ball with two hands at your chest.
  Slightly curl chin forward, relaxing through the back of the neck.
  On an exhale, squeeze your abdominals to reach the ball up toward the toes to touch, then gently release back to start position.
  
  3. Mountain Climbers
  
  Mountain Climbers
  
  Starting position is in a plank position with arms and legs long.
  Draw in your abdominals and drive one knee into the chest then switch legs quickly.  Continue with right, left, right, left knees “running” to the chest. Prevent bouncing up and down in your body by keeping abs tight.
  
   
  4. Upper Cuts
  
  Upper Cuts
  
  In starting position, stand with feet shoulder width apart and knees slightly bent.
  Make two fists and hold arms next to side with elbows bent.
  Punch the right fist in an upward motions, stopping firmly at chin level.
  Switch to left fist.
  Continue to switch right and left until you are at a fast, rhythmic pace, always stopping at chin level as if you are punching a target.
  
  BLOCK 2 [20 seconds each/10 seconds in between. Repeat 2x]
  
  
  READ THIS NEXT:  12 Minute Low Impact Workout for Bad Knees"