"Trader Joe’s is America’s favorite grocery store “where the wine is cheap, and the people are friendly.” There seems to be a sort of cult following made up of people (of whom we definitely associate with) who adore the store and its marvelous products. The inexpensive prices are near impossible to beat and the healthy food choices are abundant. We’ve done an exhaustive (but fun) roundup of Trader Joe’s top items. Keep reading for the list of healthy Trader Joe’s foods!
  Upon walking into the store, you feel an immediate sense of bliss and comfortability—the genuine workers, the fun atmosphere, the cleanliness, the cute children, and the fabulous prices. If you live near a TJ’s, you have truly scored the jackpot.
  As a part of the health and wellness world, as well as being home cooks, we, the Get Healthy U team, have considered ourselves to be experts when it comes to TJs shopping. We’ve experimented, made meal plans with their products and tasted countless products. The below products are healthy, delicious and will make you a TJ’s believer in no time (if you’re not already!).
  And if you love Trader Joe’s, you’ll love our Trader Joe’s week-long meal plan and grocery list!
  Now, here’s the list of Trader Joe’s top items, with an emphasis on healthy foods, vegetables, fruits, and snacks.
  In this Trader Joe’s Healthy Food Lineup:
  
  Vegetables
  Grains & Breads
  Snacks & Chips
  Salsas, Dips, & Seasonings
  Desserts
  Juices, Teas, & Soups
  Eggs & Dairy
  
  Trader Joe’s Vegetables and Produce
  Riced Broccoli
  
  
  
  Riced cauliflower is all the rage, but now Trader Joe’s is offering riced broccoli in a bag! Sautè it, add it to your salads, throw it in casseroles, the options are endless!
  Organic Riced Cauliflower
  
  
  
  This frozen paleo dish can be prepared in minutes and is a nummy side dish for your next dinner. Oh, and did we mention it’s prep and mess free?
  Zucchini Fries
  
  
  
  Leave it to Trader Joe’s to make our homemade favorites into convenient packaged options. These zucchini fries are a great substitute when you’re craving french fries but want something a bit healthier.
  Carrot Spirals
  
  
  
  Zoodles are so last year; try coodles instead! These carrot spirals are super fun served hot like pasta or cold in salads!
  Vegetable Patties
  
  
  
  Try a vegetarian spin on your burgers with these different types of veggie patties. We’ll be honest; we’ve tried some nasty veggie patties; these are not that.
  Trader Joe’s Healthy Grains, Breads, & Cereal
  Frozen Organic Brown Rice
  
  
  
  Let’s be honest, how many times have you skipped making brown rice because it takes 40 minutes to prepare? Let’s just say, we’ve done a few times, but now we can have brown rice whenever we’d like with these frozen pouches ready in 3 minutes!
  Organic TriColor Quinoa
  
  
  
  This quinoa was my go-to in college. I would make a batch of quinoa salad at the beginning of the week and use it all week long! It is sold at an affordable price and may just become your new favorite ingredient.
  Sprouted 7-Grain Bread
  
  
  
  For our fellow toast aficionados, this Sprouted 7-Grain Bread is a must-buy. High in fiber and protein, this bread is made of nutritious grains such as barley, brown rice, corn, millet, oats, rye and whole wheat. Hint: add a generous spoonful of the aforementioned almond butter and you’ll be in heaven.
  Blueberry Muesli
  
  
  
  For the cereal obsessed, TJ’s Trader Joes has you covered. Blueberry Muesli is fat free and contains a healthful blend of whole grain flakes like barley, rye and organic corn. Pour some unsweeted vanilla almond milk over it and your morning just got way better.
  Hemp Seed
  
  
  
  These raw hemp seeds contain essential fats that lower cholesterol, blood pressure, heart disease and stroke. Incorporate them into your daily smoothie or protein shake for numerous health benefits for your body.
  Refrigerated Whole Wheat Pizza Dough
  
  
  
  Making pizza night that much healthier, this whole wheat pizza dough has been one of my family’s summer favorites. The best part is being creative with the toppings and not feeling guilty afterward!
  Red Lentils
  
  
  
  Lentils are super healthy and now you can get them super cheaply thanks to TJ’s. We like to serve them as a side, stuffed in peppers, in soups and more!
  Related: Healthy Homemade Nut Butter
  Brown Rice and Quinoa Pasta
  
  
  
  This gluten free option packs in the flavor (and doesn’t taste like cardboard compared to some other wheat free pastas). Toss in some roasted zucchini and asparagus for an appetizing summer pasta dish!
  Baker Josef’s Organic Coconut Flour
  
  
  
  If gluten sensitivity is an issue for you, head to TJ’s for your baking necessities. Baker Josef’s Organic Coconut Flour is cheap! Made from organic coconuts, this pure coconut flour is gluten free with no additives.
  Organic Red Lentil Pasta
  
  
  
  Swap out your typical white pastas for this red lentil variety. With more protein and fiber, you’ll never again have to feel bad about pasta night.
  Sweet Corn Tamales
  
  
  
  These sweet corn tamales are a great take-to-work lunch. They’re easily microwavable and a great vegetarian option when you don’t have time for your normal meal prep.
  Organic Pizza Crusts
  
  
  
  Making homemade pizza can be super fun! But the crust is always the hardest part. Let Trader Joe’s take the hard work out for you and use they’re organic pizza crust instead – and you can even find cauliflower pizza crust at Trader Joe’s seasonally! Yes, please.
  Trader Joe’s Salsas, Dips & Seasonings
  Spinach and Kale Greek Yogurt Dip
  
  
  
  Made with Greek yogurt, this delicious dip has fewer calories and less fat than other cream cheese based dips. Pair with celery or carrot sticks for the perfect munch-able snack.
  Hummus
  
  
  
  TJ’s takes classic hummus to a new level several different flavor varieties alongside the typical tahini, olive oil, and lemon juice. This colorful spread is perfect for dunking.
  Spicy, Smoky, Peach Salsa
  
  
  
  Our very own Chris Freytag went as far as sending this salsa to her daughter across the country when she had no access to TJ’s. The salsa is addictive to say the least and it’s a great addition to your summer barbeque. Reasonably priced and only 15 calories per serving, this salsa packs a healthy punch with a great zing.
  Thai Yellow Curry Sauce
  
  
  
  The perfect addition to stir frys, dinner is as simple as a packet of brown rice (above), some chicken, broccoli and this Thai Yellow Curry Sauce!
   
  Chunky Guacamole Reduced Guilt
  
  
  
  The keywords here are reduced guilt. Guacamole is one of our guilty pleasures, but at Trader Joe’s, we don’t have to feel bad about myself after indulging because it has 50% less fat and 40% fewer calories than most other guacamoles on the market. Besides avocados, TJ’s guac is filled with tomatoes, red onion, cilantro, garlic, fresh lime, jalapeño and the secret ingredient: Greek yogurt.
  Harissa
  
  
  
  Harissa has been getting the spotlight in recent years for it’s added flavor punch. Condiments are typically pretty bad for you, but harissa changes the game actually adding health benefits to your dishes!
  Organic Vodka Sauce
  
  
  
  We love making our own homemade pasta sauce, but when time is short, make sure you have a jar of this organic vodka sauce on hand; you won’t regret it.
  Olive Tapenade
  
  
  
  This olive tapenade is fancy enough to set out for a cocktail party but so delicious and inexpensive, you’ll probably just want to have it on a normal Tuesday.
  Champagne Pear Vinaigrette
  
  
  
  Dressings can be loaded with artificial flavors and ingredients, but not this Champagne Pear Vinaigrette! It’s a super delicious dressing you can use without wondering what you just drizzle onto your healthy salad!
  Chile Lime Seasoning Blend
  
  
  
  This chile lime seasoning is the perfect addition to chicken or fish without adding a ton of extra calories and fat. Plus, it’s so flavorful, you won’t need to add anything else!
  Kimchi
  
  
  
  Love kimchi? Trader Joe’s has got you covered with this ethnic condiment. Never tried it? It can take some getting used to but the health benefits are truly outstanding!
  Heart of Palm Medallions
  
  
  
  These fun little treats are the perfect salad toppers; perfectly cut into medallions for bite-size convenience.
  Healthy Snacks at Trader Joe’s
  Roasted Seaweed Snack
  
  
  
  Change up your snacking game with TJ’s roasted seaweed snack. Crunchy, salty and good for you too!
  Quinoa and Black Bean Tortilla Chips
  
  
  
  Who doesn’t love a good tortilla chip? Especially when it has the added benefits of quinoa and black beans like this bag from Trader Joe’s!
  New Zealand Sweet Apple Rings
  
  
  
  TJ’s is also home to an amazing array of dried fruits. Our favorite at Get Healthy U is the New Zealand Sweet Apple Rings. They are high in dietary fiber, have no saturated fats or sodium and are great for kids lunches, snacks or road trips.
  Just Beets Chips
  
  
  
  We all want something crunchy to snack on when afternoon hunger strikes; how about these dehydrated beet chips? They’re perfectly portable and much better for you than potato chips or pretzels.
  Trader Joe’s Healthy Desserts and Fruit
  Cold Brew Latte Dessert Bars
  
  
  
  A healthy diet includes dessert, right? We think so! And at only 7 grams of sugar per bar, these cold brew latte dessert bars won’t sabotage your goals.
  Organic Pomegranate Seeds
  
  
  
  These seeds are loaded with antioxidants and key to your daily intake of dietary fibers. TJ’s takes the headache out of de-seeding your own pomegranate and makes it easy to sprinkle on salads or snack on.
  Organic Acaí Puree Packets
  
  
  
  You can become an Instagram star with these organic acaí puree packets for all your smoothie bowl needs. They come in 4 individual packets so you can get them out as needed!
  Chocolate Covered Banana Slices
  
  
  
  A team favorite, these chocolate covered bananas are a staple summertime treat in our freezer. They’re a great swap when you’re craving ice cream but want fewer calories and sugar.
  Dark Chocolate
  
  
  
  This 72% dark chocolate is 1 whole pound! But a quarter of the price as other grocery store. Plus, the chocolate is marked into squares so you can just break off one square at a time for your post-dinner dessert. We love that this lasts us so long and that it’s so inexpensive!
  Whole Green Figs
  
  
  
  You’re about to become obsessed with these frozen figs. Stick them in your smoothie or swap them in for dessert.
  Frozen Mango
  
  
  
  Trader Joe’s is renowned for it’s frozen food products. You may even start to wake up five minutes earlier than usual to make a healthy breakfast smoothie.
  Fancy Medjool Dates
  
  
  
  Looking for a date? Look no further. Dates can be put into smoothies or baked goods, or used as part of a nut and cheese platter. They are as sweet as candy and may just become your new addiction.
  Related: 14 Best Packaged Foods For Clean Eating
  Trader Joe’s Nuts, Butters, and Healthy Oil
  Dry Roasted and Salted Mixed Nuts
  
  
  
  Go no further than TJ’s to find endless varieties of trail mixes and nuts. These mixes give you the protein that you need at a price you can afford; they’re pretty much impossible to pass up. Our favorites are the Wasabi Trek Mix and the Simply Almonds Cashews & Chocolate Trail Mix.
  Creamy Almond Butter
  
  
  
  TJ’s almond butter has to be the best price around. Put it on bananas for extra protein after a power workout! So yummy and creamy.
  Coconut Oil
  
  
  
  Some people are fearful of buying coconut oil because of adding unwanted tastes in their food preparation. But when it comes to TJ’s coconut oil, the flavor is very mild, plus you cannot beat the price. It comes in an easy-to-use canister and it’s incredibly versatile; we use it for everything from scrambled eggs to cookies.
  Trader Joe’s Healthy Juices, Teas, & Soups
  Organic Tomato & Roasted Red Pepper Soup
  
  
  
  A winter staple, this organic tomato and roasted red pepper soup is the perfect dinner for a cold night. Just heat it up and serve!
  Matcha Green Tea
  
  
  
  These single serve matcha packets are a dream come true! You can of course drink it as a tea, but we also like to add it to our nice cream for a fun twist!
  Beet Juice
   
  
  
  
  Don’t want to eat your veggies? Try drinking them with this totally natural beet juice! It’s made with just a splash of lemon and is a super yummy way to get your juice on.
  Related: 55 Healthy and Easy Snacks
  Maple Water
  
  
  
  One new drink to make an appearance in the health world is maple water and TJ’s comes to the rescue again at another unbeatable price (noticing a pattern yet?). Hydrate in a brand new way adding just a touch of sweetness into your life.
  Trader Joe’s Eggs & Dairy
  Egg Whites
  
  
  
  Egg whites are protein packed and one of the greatest post-workout foods for your body, These cage-free and minimally processed eggs are quick and easy for your mornings or filling snack.
  Low Fat Kefir
  
  
  
  TJ’s Kefir should be a staple in your fridge due to all of its probiotic benefits. It is creamy, naturally flavored and contains twelve probiotic cultures working to keep your stomach happy.
  As you can see, Trader Joe’s products and prices are hard to beat; it’s no wonder they have such a following. Did we miss any of your favorites? We want to hear from you!
  And if you love Trader Joe’s, you’ll love our Trader Joe’s week-long meal plan and grocery list!
  
  For full weekly meal plan and grocery list, click here!"