"People come in all shapes in sizes, depending on both your genetics and lifestyle choices. But did you know there are three main categories of body types people typically fall under? Let’s talk about the types of metabolism.
  
  Ectomorph, Mesomorph, and Endomorph – all beautiful!
  
  The three main metabolic body types are:EctomorphMesomorphEndomorph
  Learning about the types of metabolism can help you train and eat specifically for your body type—it essentially gives you better knowledge on how to lose weight and stay healthy. 
  Following a metabolic type diet based on your body shape may be helpful.  The idea is that people have different macronutrient needs based on their metabolic body type. 
  Just remember: Plenty of people are a combination of two body types as well, so don’t stress about completely fitting the bill of one specifically—go with the traits and the advice that resonate the most with your body.
  Learning about the types of metabolism is fascinating. Read on to get the low-down on each of the three metabolic body types, plus fitness and diet tips to tailor your lifestyle to match your specific type.
  Ectomorph
  
  The ectomorph metabolic body type
  Ectomorphs are typically slender with small joints and a light build. Think that slim friend who tends to eat whatever she wants without putting on a pound.
  Ectomorphs have a narrow frame and fast metabolism, meaning they’re often able to overeat without gaining much weight.
  If are an ectomorph metabolic type and are looking to maintain a healthy weight while getting stronger, it’s key to get enough protein and often recommended to eat smaller meals more often. 
  Also, if you’re not already, be sure you’re incorporating strength training into your weekly workouts.
  Ectomorph characteristics
  
  Thin, lean body
  Flat chest
  Small shoulders
  Not muscular
  Fast metabolism
  Prone to periods of hyperactivity
  Hard to gain weight
  
  Ectomorph diet advice
  
  Always eat breakfast!
  Your body tends to use all three macronutrients equally.  Also known as a Triple Macro Burner. 
  Eat a greater amount of healthy, complex carbohydrates, especially post-workout
  Eat more frequently; eating 6 smaller meals spread over the course of the day instead of 3 larger ones
  Supplement with protein shakes before or after your workouts
  
  Ectomorph workout advice
  Prioritize strength training over cardio; focus on simple strength workouts 3 days a week that hone in on all the major muscle groups.  Try some compound moves and work towards heavier weights to see some changes.   
  Often an ectomorph hasn’t given strength training a proper chance, because it feels hard to put on the muscle.  Stay consistent, go heavier and  you may see muscles emerge.
  Related: The Dangers of Being Skinny Fat 
  Mesomorph
  The mesomorph metabolic body type
  Mesomorphs typically have an athletic, medium build and can gain muscle easily. Unfortunately, they also gain fat easily, too, so they need to be careful not to overeat—which many tend to do because they take their naturally athletic body for granted.
  People with a mesomorph metabolic body type should get a decent mix of strength training and cardio, and try to cut back on their carb intake if they want to lose weight.
  (If you’re interested in cutting back on the carbs, try these delicious low-carb zucchini recipes.)
  Mesomorph characteristics:
  
  Athletic
  Medium-sized body structure
  Strong
  Broad shoulders
  Gains muscle easily
  Responds well to exercise
  If have extra body fat, tend to carry it in the lower body
  
  Mesomorph diet advice
  
  Focus on getting a healthy mix of complex carbs, proteins, and fats -making sure your carb intake is heavy on plants and high fiber.
  Your body tends to like sugar. Avoid white flour and sugar. As a Dual Macro Burner, (DMB metabolic type) your carb and protein intake may be higher. 
  Include a good source of protein with every meal. Focus on lower-fat foods.  
  If weight loss is your goal, cut back on processed foods. Many mesomorphs see quick weight loss results from switching to a higher protein, healthy carb diet.
  
  Mesomorph workout advice
  Mesomorphs respond quickly to exercise, so your body will benefit from any activity. Combine an equal mix of cardio and strength training weekly for best results.
  Incorporate power moves like plyometric exercises (think split jumps, squat jacks, or burpees) to take your fitness to the next level. 
  Don’t coast on your naturally athletic frame—take advantage of it by challenging yourself and reaping the rewards.
  Endomorph
  
  The endomorph metabolic body type
  Endomorphs have a larger bone structure and more overall body fat—evolutionarily speaking, you’re better at storing nutrients than the other two types. Endomorphs generally have thicker arms and legs with a round body.
  It can be hard for an endomorph to lose weight, but not impossible! They typically have strong leg muscles and weaker upper body muscles.
  Endomorph characteristics
  
  Round body
  Medium to large joints + bones
  Gain muscle and fat easily
  Strong leg muscles
  Find it hard to lose weight
  Fatigues easily
  Slow metabolism
  
  Endomorph diet advice
  
  Limit carbohydrates when possible—except for veggies, fruit, and whole grains.
  Make sure you’re eating enough fiber each day to keep you full without binging on unhealthy foods
  Many endomorphs see great weight loss success from a Paleo-centric diet.  Your body type is also known as a Protein Dominant Burner and you should focus on high-quality protein and low carbs.
  For PDB metabolic types – fats are recommended to help keep you satiated just be aware of how many because they are higher in calories per gram.  
  
  Endomorph workout advice
  Focus on losing weight through cardio and strength combo workouts. Interval-style routines may be your best friend.
  Ditch the long, slow treadmill workouts in favor of a 30-minute HIIT class. You’ll be dripping sweat and burning fat and it’s better cardio for your heart and your body than a slow, steady-state jog. 
  Know that because you can’t spot-reduce body fat, all the crunches in the world won’t give you six-pack abs if you have fat covering the muscle. So aim to lose body fat all over to start.
  Which Metabolic Body Type Are You?
  Did you see yourself in one of these body types—or perhaps a combination of two? Knowing the types of metabolism can really help you understand your unique body type and how to really work with it, not against it.
  
  Using these tips is a way to maximize your weight loss potential and help you make the most of your genetic makeup.
  
  We are all born beautiful in our individual shape and size; listen to your body and use only the advice that resonates with you.
  
  Using this Information to Lose Weight
  If you would like to lose weight, using the metabolic body types can be an advantage. Now that you have an awareness of whether you’re a mesomorph, endomorph, or ectomorph, you can understand which foods and activities are best for your health and fitness goals.
  
  For example, if you’re a mesomorph you are lucky to gain muscle easily, so strength training will be a welcome addition to your workout routine. However, you will need to be vigilant about your diet, as your metabolic profile also gains fat quickly. That awareness will help you make more informed food choices on a daily basis.
  As another example, if you’re an endomorph your body converts carbohydrates with some trouble. This could be a major insight you’ve been missing for years. Trying a paleo or low carb eating plan for a few weeks could help you shed those hard-to-lose pounds finally!
  For the ectomorph, people may think you are the skinny friend that has it easy because you can stay slender no matter what. But maintaining both strength and curves takes work. Knowing your metabolic type helps you prioritize protein and make meal timing more consistent.
  
  Remember Every Body is Beautiful
  Ectomorph mesomorph and endomorph are just categories – every body is beautifully unique.
  At the end of the day, a metabolic type is just a small part of who we are. The most important thing to remember is to enjoy the journey of health and fitness and be proud of what your body can do for you.
  READ THIS NEXT: How to Increase Your Metabolism After 50
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  10 Minute (INTENSE) Advanced Ab Workout
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  7 BEST Exercises To Relieve Tight Hips
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  9 BEST Agility Ladder Drills
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Cardio Hula Hoop Workout"