"Expecting a baby is one of the most joyous moments in life, but we can think of a few aspects of pregnancy that aren’t so joyous—yes, we’re looking at you, morning sickness, fatigue, and stretch marks. While pretty much everyone from your neighbor to your mother to your best friend will be ready and willing to give you their advice, let us chime in with one natural wellness option that might benefit you: prenatal essential oils.
  There are a lot of different opinions about whether or not essential oils should be used during pregnancy. Many medical resources (like WebMD) outline that there are a few essential oils to avoid when pregnant, mainly because the oils are extremely concentrated. This doesn’t mean, for example, that since you should avoid basil essential oils or that you need to stop cooking with basil. It just means there are certain oils that may be too concentrated for your pregnancy.
  
  Also, there are certain essential oils that are safe, but generally should only be used in your second and third trimester. At the end of the day, though, everyone is different. You should always consult with your doctor about what’s best for your individual body! On that note, there are certain essential oils that have been found to alleviate common prenatal symptoms—and we’re all about natural options for treating symptoms like nausea, headaches, and fatigue. So let’s get to it! Here’s how to use essential oils during pregnancy for natural relief of morning sickness and more.
  How To Use Essential Oils During Pregnancy
  
  When considering using prenatal essential oils, it’s generally agreed upon that you should avoid the use of any essential oils during your first trimester. It is also important to pay attention to what brands of essential oils you buy as many are not suitable to be taken internally. Young Living and DoTerra are a couple popular and reputable brands that can be used internally. After the first trimester, here are the general guidelines for which oils to avoid and which are considered safe for prenatal use:
  AVOID the following oils when pregnant:
  
  Rosemary
  Fennel
  Clary Sage
  Juniper
  Basil
  Wintergreen
  Jasmine
  Sage
  
  USE the following oils when pregnant—generally considered safe for your second and third trimesters.
  
  Citrus oils like neroli, lemon, or grapefruit
  Lavendar
  Chamomile
  Bergamot
  Frankincense
  Peppermint
  Ylang ylang
  Eucalyptus
  
  Related: 37 Surprising Uses For Essential Oils
  A Quick Note On Carrier Oils
  When you read essential oil recipes, you’ll often see instructions to dilute a few drops of the essential oil with a “carrier” oil. These oils include coconut oil, almond oil, or olive oil. You can combine a teaspoon of the carrier oil with a few drops of the essential oil so that it is more diluted or milder, for your pregnancy. This also comes in hand when using essential oils in moisturizers—for example, for stretch marks you can combine lavender with coconut oil to make a natural stretch mark remedy.
  As always, know your body and what works for you—and if you have any specific medical concerns, address them with your doctor. Here are a few of our favorite essential oil remedies for treating those not-so-pleasant pregnancy symptoms. Give one a try to find natural relief from some of those more uncomfortable symptoms of pregnancy today.
  Essential Oil Remedies For Common Pregnancy Symptoms
  Morning Sickness
  Peppermint: Take a whiff or swallow a drop of peppermint to combat nausea or morning sickness.
  Fatigue
  Lemon: add a drop or two into water or take a whiff to feel refreshed and more alert.
  Stretch Marks
  Frankincense: Add 1-2 drops of frankincense to coconut oil or cocoa butter and use as a moisturizer to prevent stretch marks.
  Headaches
  Peppermint: Combine 1-2 drops of peppermint oil with almond or coconut oil and massage along your forehead to relieve tension headaches.
  Mood Swings 
  Lavender: Simply take a whiff of lavender or combine a few drops of lavender with your favorite carrier oil like coconut oil or olive oil.
  Insomnia
  Lavender: Add a few drops of lavender to an aromatherapy diffuser during the night to help you sleep.
  Aches and Pains
  Frankincense: Combine 1-2 drops of frankincense to coconut oil and massage over achy joints.
  
  READ THIS NEXT: Prenatal Yoga Flow Workout"