"Ok poll time: How many of your workouts have been interrupted by a phone call? How many have been thwarted by the sudden needs of your family? How many workouts have you skipped to attend a last minute meeting or run an errand? It’s life. It happens to everyone. So here’s our suggestion: get a little movement in first thing in the morning, before you take a shower or attend to the needs of anyone else. With this quick, energizing yoga routine you can move your body for ten minutes and mentally prepare yourself for the busy day ahead.
  To set yourself up for success, make sure you sleep in something that will work for yoga. A soft, but snug top and either shorts or a comfy pair of yoga pants will work. This way, you can truly just roll out of bed and get it done. Oh, and make sure you lay your yoga mat on the floor next to the bed!
  
  10-Minute Morning Yoga Routine
  This is a full-body yoga sequence that will work all of your muscle groups and leave you feeling refreshed and ready to tackle your day. Here’s how it works:
  
  This yoga practice is set up in pairs. For each pair of moves, you will flow between the two poses for one minute.
  The entire routine will take you five minutes to go through once.
  Repeat for a second time and get an invigorating 10-minute yoga workout.
  
  Standing Side Bend + Yogi Squat
  
  
  A) Begin in standing position and reach right arm over right ear, bending sideways as you lower your left arm down your left leg. This is standing side bend. Then return to center and do the other side, reaching left arm over left ear.
  B) Step feet apart slightly with toes turned out and slide your tailbone down as you squat, pulling hands to your heart and pressing your elbows against your inner thighs. Hold back straight as you breathe into yogi squat.
  Continue to move between the side bends and the yogi squats for one minute then move to the next pair of poses.
  Downward Dog + Plank
  
  
  A) Begin in Downward Dog position with hands shoulder-width apart, tailbone up in the air and chest pressing back toward your thighs as heels push toward the floor. Take a deep breath in and out.
  B) Tighten your abs and pull your body forward into a straight line so your shoulders are above your wrists and your body forms a plank. Hold abs and glutes tight. Take a deep breath in and exhale as you hold. Press back to downward dog.
  Continue moving between the two for one minute then move to the next set of poses.
  Crescent Lunge + Warrior 2
  
  A) Begin in crescent lunge pose, stepping the ball of your left foot to the back of the mat. Reach both arms straight overhead and bend the right knee to 90 degrees.
  B) Rotate your back foot to be perpendicular to your right, deepen your stance slightly, and reach your arms out wide for warrior 2. 
  As you flow back and forth, alternate right and left sides of both poses.
  Chair Pose + Chair Pose With Twist
  
  a) Begin in chair pose with knees bent, tailbone over heels, and arms extended into the air alongside ears. Keep abs tight. Inhale and exhale slowly.
  B) Bring your hands to prayer position at your heart and slowly rotate at the ribcage, placing your right elbow over your left knee. This is chair post with a twist. Inhale and exhale slowly.
  Continue the flow between chair and twisted chair (alternating sides for twisted chair) for one minute.
  Reverse Table Top + Boat Pose
  
  A) Begin in seated position and reach arms behind you with fingertips facing in toward body and feet hip width apart. Exhale and lift your hips high, relaxing your head back into a reverse table top position. Inhale and exhale slowly.
  B) Slowly release bottom to the mat and, while squeezing your abs tight, extend your legs straight up in front of you and reach arms straight alongside legs for boat pose. Hold belly tight as you stay and breathe.
  Flow between reverse table top and boat pose for one minute.
  Great job! Now drink some water, take a shower and move on with your day feeling refreshed and energized!
  READ THIS NEXT: 6 Reasons To Wake Up 15 Minutes Early"