"There are many things I love about getting older: being able to let things go, prioritizing more time for what matters, and feeling comfortable with myself. But there are certain things about aging that I don’t enjoy, and they mostly include the physical changes. As I’ve gotten older I’ve noticed my skin, hair, and nails have changed. In my late forties my hair began thinning, and—surprise—I’m not a natural blonde, so the texture of my gray hair became more brittle. Hair was coming out in the shower or on my hairbrush. My skin felt dry and less elastic. And my nails felt brittle and weak.
  I wasn’t imagining things. As you get older, your hair, skin, and nails change—among other things. Your skin loses moisture and elasticity, and your hair can thin and fall out easier. Your nails break more easily. Fun, right? Mentally, it can be a hard adjustment to notice these changes. So what are we women taught to do? We’re encouraged to spend hundreds of dollars on expensive facial creams that promise to bring back that “youthful glow.” We slather on serums and get expensive treatments in hopes of rejuvenating our skin from the outside.
  Treating The Signs Of Aging from The Inside Out
  From my experience, however, I’ve always believed that beauty comes from the inside out. Nothing you put on top of your face is going to help if you aren’t starting with what you’re putting inside your body—the nutrients you’re eating. Eating healthy and exercising is necessary for staying healthy and youthful, in my book. However, even though I eat right, the aging process isn’t slowing down. I wanted something more holistic to help my skin bounce back and my hair be healthy and growing.
  Related: 8 Sneaky Reasons You’re Losing Your Hair
  In hopes of this, I started taking Biotin a few years back. Biotin is a B vitamin and it’s water-soluble, meaning your body will eliminate any excess. And then recently I discovered something that’s more than just Biotin: New Chapter’s Perfect Hair, Skin, and Nails. This supplement combines probiotic-fermented Biotin with powerful Astaxanthin, a rare plant-nutrient from organic algae that is clinically proven to reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles.* It also features a superfood botanical blend of fermented herbs for stress, energy and digestive support*—key areas that can affect the health of your skin.* What I love about New Chapter’s supplements is that they’re formulated with a whole food approach and they’re Gluten-free and Non-GMO, so I feel good about taking them. I take one in the morning and I’m good to go!
  
  The Nutrients You Need For Healthy Hair, Skin, and Nails
  Supporting healthy hair, skin, and nails starts with nutrients. I’m a firm believer in getting your nutrients from food first, and supplements second. But the truth is, even if you’re a perfect eater (which, let’s face it, most of us aren’t 100% of the time), supplements still help us thrive in the face of our stressed-out world. We live amidst pollution, free radical damage, and stress 24/7—our bodies are not always capable of keeping up with it all, especially as we age.
  While I do believe in getting as many nutrients from food as possible (natural sources of Biotin, for example, include eggs, avocado, salmon, raspberries, and cauliflower) I also believe supplements can act as an “insurance policy” to make sure your body is operating as efficiently as possible. New Chapter’s Perfect Hair, Skin, and Nails includes some amazing ingredients that I learned help to fight the signs of aging from the inside out*. Here are some of the nutrients that help your hair, skin, and nails as you age. 
  1. Biotin
  Biotin is a great place to start when looking to support strong, healthy hair, and nails. The Biotin in Perfect Hair, Skin and Nails is fermented. In fact, many of the herbs and the Biotin in this supplement go through New Chapter’s proprietary 2-step fermentation method. Why? Fermenting nutrients and herbs with whole foods and clinically studied strains of probiotics helps give them greater vitality.  This supplement is also easily digestible and gentle on the stomach. The Biotin in Perfect Hair, Skin & Nails is a great example—New Chapterferments this B Vitamin which supports the body’s natural production of keratin, the protein required for healthy hair and strong nails.*
  2. Astaxanthin
  Perfect Hair, Skin & Nails also includes Astaxanthin, a rare plant-nutrient carotenoid sourced from organic algae, with antioxidant power over 50 times more potent than Vitamin C and Beta Carotene! The herbalist who made this supplement found that Astaxanthin has a powerful effect on elasticity in the skin and helps to maintain youthful appearance, which is very welcome as we get older*.
  
  3. Chamomile and Maca
  Herbs like Chamomile and Maca—also included in this supplement—are important support for your body’s stress response*. Stress often shows up in your skin health; if you are constantly on-edge and dealing with a fight-or-flight mentality, it’s going to show up on your face.
  4. Aloe, Cardmom and Peppermint
  Perfect Hair, Skin & Nails also includes aloe, cardamom and peppermint—ingredients that aid in digestion. There is increasing science that links digestive health to skin health—as well as immunity and overall wellness. Together, this powerful blend helps you treat the signs of aging from the inside out, not the other way around*.
  I’m proud to say I take a hair, skin, and nails supplement because as I age, it’s important to me to focus on my beauty from the inside out—by being healthy, nutritious, and whole.
  You can purchase New Chapter’s Perfect Hair, Skin and Nails supplement from Amazon.
  This is a sponsored post from New Chapter Vitamins & Supplements, who provided me with a free product for our review. We only partner with brands that align with our mission of health, wellness, and positivity—whose awesome products we think can actually improve your daily life. All opinions are my own.
  *These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
  Certified Organic by International Certification Services, Inc., Medina, ND, USA
  READ THIS NEXT: 6 Signs You May Have a Vitamin B Deficiency"