"How about slipping into that party dress with a little more confidence? While it may be unrealistic to lose a bunch of weight before you head to your next holiday get-together, you CAN slip in a quick workout to help you look more toned, feel energized and carry more confidence with every step.
  We’ve all seen the fitness models toned and sculpted in their tanks or the shirtless guy selling cologne. Well here’s a little secret—they worked out right before those pictures were taken! That’s right. The “pump” you get from lifting weights is real. Immediately after lifting weights, the muscle fibers experience micro-tears and begin to break down. This is, of course, how you become stronger. Once broken down your muscles build back stronger than they were before but in the short term, the torn fibers get a rush of blood and water to help begin the repair process thereby defining your muscles and making you look more toned and strong. Now while we can’t promise you that “model-like” body, you WILL look more toned, feel more energized and be more confident than ever. So let’s get this party started!
  Total-Body LBD Workout
  This workout takes about 15 minutes and should be done right before you shower and dress for your event. Get yourself a little space and a set of heavy dumbbells and go through the following routine twice without stopping in between. The secret sauce is to perform 12-15 reps per move with no rest between exercises! And although we are suggesting this workout before you head to your event, for even better results, do this workout three times a week. And by the way, drink lots of water the day of the party to hydrate up and feel great. Let’s go!
  Related: Why You Should Workout Harder, Not Longer
  Walking Push-Ups
  Moving push-ups create more muscle fiber action and make your core work harder! If you can’t eek them all out on your toes, use your knees as needed. Perform 12-15 reps.
  
  A) Start with hands on the mat a fists distance apart from each other, legs long, and on toes in a full plank position with your abdominals engaged.
  B) Walk your right hand and foot out to the side and lower to a push-up by bending your elbows to the sides and lowering your chest towards the mat. Press up, straightening your arms and bring the right and left foot back to your starting position. Repeat on the other side.
  Mountain Climbers
  Keep the upper body pumping and add some core and cardio to the mix. Perform 12-15 per knee.
  
  A) Start in a plank position with arms and legs long.
  B) Draw in your abdominals and drive one knee into the chest then switch legs quickly. Continue with right, left, right, left knees “running” to the the chest. Prevent bouncing up and down in your body by keeping abs tight.
  Cross-Behind Lunge Bicep Curl
  Shape up your legs but keep your arms looking great! Perform 12 reps each leg.
  
  A) Begin standing with your feet hip-distance apart.
  B) Transfer your bodyweight onto your left leg and cross your right foot behind your left leg, keeping your hips facing forward as you bend both knees and lower yourself toward the floor in a lunge. Curl the weights to your shoulders. Keep your back straight and chest lifted to keep your weight in the front leg.
  C) Step back to starting position while lowering your arms and repeat on the other side.
  Burpee
  Keep the lower body and upper body pumping while pushing your heart rate up! Perform 12-15 reps
  
   
  A) Start in a plank position with arms and legs long, hands shoulder distance apart.
  B) Walk or jump both feet between your hands coming into a low squat. Jump straight up as high as possible, land, and come back to your plank position.
  Shoulder Overhead Press
  Back to buff arms. These babies will sculpt your shoulders and biceps. Perform 12-15 reps.
  
   A) Start with feet hip-distance apart. Bring elbows out to the side, creating a goal post position with arms; dumbbells are at the side of the head and abdominals are tight.
  B) Press dumbbells up slowly until arms are straight. Slowly return to starting position with control. Repeat for desired number of reps.
  Push-Up Jack
  Keep your arms and chest pumping but add some awesome core. If you are unable to perform in its entirety, try a basic kneeling push-up instead!
  
  A) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists, your feet together, and your body in a straight line.
  B) Lower to a pushup while jumping feet to a wide position. Keep abs tight and back straight.
  C) Jump your feet back together as you straighten your arms to return to start.
  Tricep Overhead Extension
  Your arms are really pumping now! Let’s get those triceps toned up too. Perform 12-15 reps.
  
  A) Standing with feet hip-distance apart, holding dumbells straight overhead and keeping your spine long and abs tight.
  
  B) Bend elbows, lowering dumbbells behind the base of the head. Keep your elbows hugging in towards your head and pointing forward. Then extend your arms long, returning to your starting position working the triceps.
  Double Leg Stretch
  Finish up with some rock hard abs to pull that belly in just a little tighter. Try 12-15 reps.
  
  Now head back to the top of the order and go through everything one more time!
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 15 Minute Jump Rope and Bodyweight Home Circuit Workout"