"We have an at home pregnancy workout that only takes 10 MINUTES that will engage your whole body, get that heart rate up, and hopefully, get you sweating, all of which are very important to do regularly while pregnant. This short workout is designed for the soon to be mom’s that have yet to get their body in motion during their pregnancy. If you were looking for a sign to start exercising before this baby comes out, here it is!\nWe know that EVERYONE has 10 minutes every day, and we also know that so many soon-to-be moms still do not exercise and physically ready themselves for the marathon of childbirth. This is why we have created this quick 10-minute workout for daily or twice daily until you feel ready to step up to the next level.\nFrequent changes to diet and exercise recommendations have many moms questioning if implementing an at home pregnancy workout is too complicated. It’s true there is a science behind it—a lot of science, actually! Most notably, the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology recently published a compilation of decades of pregnancy workout research. All concluding that there are dozens of exercise health benefits for both mom and baby. This at home pregnancy workout was specifically created to help take the guesswork out of the prenatal exercise. This simple guide will help you spend less time searching for exercises, and more time enjoying your pregnancy.\n\nPregnancy Exercises At Home\nIf you feel like you lack the time and confidence to perform effective pregnancy exercises at home, you aren’t alone. An in-depth study by researchers at the Department of Kinesiology, Kansas State University revealed the numerous barriers to physical activity that parents face. Demanding schedules and busy family lives, added to the challenge of determining what workouts will work best for you, can make finding the right program more intense than the workout itself! \nA great at home pregnancy workout doesn’t have to be complicated. See results simply by following basic exercise principles, listening to your body, and receiving expert guidance from dedicated prenatal fitness specialists. In the Prenatal + Core Rehab Membership, you’ll get these exercises, plus many more. In addition, the online coaching, guided program, and community of members give you endless options for modifications for your growing bump and beyond. Never get bored with at home workouts again! \n\nWe’re going to share a few incredibly effective, yet simple exercises for a fit pregnancy workout. These moves require very little time and equipment, for all you super busy mamas! Modify this workout to fit your lifestyle. Some extra reps and floor work (stretching and breathing) can give you a safe, intense sweat. Strapped for time? Check this at 1o minute home pregnancy workout off your to-do list today!\nPregnancy Workout Routine: Your Step by Step Guide\nPerform each of the following 4 exercises, with a strong focus on accuracy and form for 90 seconds. Remember, it’s not the number of reps that counts, it’s making each rep count. Rest between sets, and complete the sequence 3 x for a full-length at-home pregnancy workout!\nExercise 1: Hip Rolls\n\nRoll your spine upward, a single vertebra at a time, as you articulate your spine.\nPause and inhale deeply once reaching the top.\nBreathe out nice and easy, again articulating the spine as you return roll down the length of the mat.\nWhen your back is to the mat, breathe in and arch your back.\nBreathe out once again before commencing with your next roll.\n\n\n*Modify Me: For this exercise, you may add a resistance band secured around the thighs for additional resistance.\nExercise 2: Reach and Curls \n\nStarting on all fours, reach your right leg straight back so it parallels the floor. Move slowly to maintain balance. \nReach your left arm out in front so it also parallels the floor.\nExhale. Slowly bring your leg and arm in towards each other, activating your abdominals. \nWith control, slowly extend your arm and leg back out, adding a small arch to your back. Switch sides.\n\n\n*Modify Me: If balancing is a challenge, omit the reach and use two hands for balance. Be sure to keep the upper body square with the shoulders. \nExercise 3: Squats with Rotation:\n\nSpread your feet to equate shoulder width, then rotating your legs outward from the hip. \nKeep your head upward as you squat down. Focus your motion on your hips and behind without exerting the back. \nStand up and rotate toward a single side. Rotate your back leg and pivot up on your toes, all the while extending your arms upward and away from you.\nStand tall, lifting from your core.\nRotate in the direction of the center, repeating the exercise on alternating sides.\n\n\n*Modify Me: For this exercise, feel free to securely hold a lightweight with both hands. The additional resistance will give you a deeper stretch, more challenging squat, and enhance toning for your arms. \nExercise 4: Side Arm Press\n\nIn a standing position, place a resistance band behind you, holding it in your hands. \nBring your elbows to your sides at a 90-degree angle, with shoulders rotated back. \nExhale as you draw your shoulder blades down, pressing the band out and away from your body. \nInhale to pull your elbows back towards your side. \n\n\n*Modify Me: When arms are at 90 degrees, perform a wide squat. Exhale to stand while pressing the arms overhead. When arms have returned to the 90-degree position, continue to Step 3. Adding an overhead press and squat to the side arm press will activate the glutes, and give a complete tone to the shoulder muscles. \nRemember to end each workout with a light stretch. Hydrate regularly and recover your breaths between sets. Never push yourself to exhaustion, you should always be able to speak clearly while exercising. \nCongratulations! You’ve just completed a full-body at home pregnancy workout. You can complete this sequence for time, or aim for 3 rounds at 10-15 reps each for an added challenge. \nFor more safe and effective exercises you can do at home, check out my Prenatal + Core Rehab Membership! You’ll get in-depth tutorials, simple healthful recipes, exclusive access, and become part of our complete Knocked-Up Fitness prenatal and postpartum lifestyle community. Let us know in the comments if you completed this at home pregnancy workout, we love to hear from you! \n\n\t\t\n\t\n\nTags: at home pregnancy exercise, at home pregnancy workout, pregnancy exercises at home, pregnancy workouts at home, pregnancy workouts first trimester, pregnancy workouts second trimester, pregnancy workouts third trimesterShare:"