"Knocked-Up Fitness is very excited to introduce trainer and pregnant momma Keri Lynn Ford to the Real Mom Blogs! At 18 weeks into her first pregnancy, Keri discusses the excitement of pregnancy so far, and her positive outlook on working in the fitness industry while being Knocked-Up!\n\n \nQ: Tell us a little about yourself.\nA: I am a certified personal trainer through the American Council on Exercise (ACE), an ACE-certified lifestyle and weight management coach, as well as a Mad Dogg Athletics certified spin instructor. After college, where I was a cheerleader at the University of Deleware, I spent years as a Celebrity Trainer, working with people like Alison Sweeney fromThe Biggest Loser, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Laura Prepon and Kaley Cuoco. I also previously organized and coordinated bootcamps in Los Angeles sponsored by Jillian Michaels’ online program. Now, I have put all of my knowledge and experience into my role as creator and head of IgniteGirls®, an online fitness community for women. I am also currently 18 weeks pregnant with my first baby!\nQ: What has your pregnancy experience been so far?\nA: I have earned the nickname Firecracker Ford, so as you can imagine, one of the hardest side effects I have had to deal with is fatigue. I have a hard time getting out of bed feeling refreshed (in part because of my insanely disturbing pregnancy dreams) and ready to take on the day. It feels like everything takes a little longer than I would like. On the days I feel more like me, I just make sure to run with it!\nQ: What is the most exciting part of pregnancy so far? What are you most nervous about?\nA: I’m really excited that this is my first baby. That being said, that also scares the s%&t out of me. I actually had a miscarriage earlier this year, so I feel all the more grateful this time around. While there are many things that can go wrong during a pregnancy, I have tried to focus on all the things that can go right! Meditation and breathing exercises have helped calm my anxieties, especially through those first several weeks when I was most on edge. I can’t wait to meet a little mini version of me and my husband; I think that will be the fun part, along with watching the baby experience all of his or her “firsts” in the world.\nQ: What are your favorite prenatal fitness activities?\nA: Spin class has always been my go-to. I am still teaching once a week, for as long as I can. After baby is born, I know I will be really excited to get back in the saddle. I love designing the workouts to upbeat playlists; it keeps me and the class motivated, since you can’t help but move to the beat. In addition, I have been continuing to lift a few times a week, with the appropriate modifications.\nQ: Any activities you’re finding more challenging or more enjoyable with this pregnancy?\nA: Everything. As a previous fitness competitor who loves intense exercises like boxing, spinning and gymnastics, it’s amazing how much I need to scale things back simply because I am out of breath so quickly. In general, my motivation to even do simple tasks was lacking, but thankfully, now that I am in the second trimester my energy has picked up a bit!\nQ: How are you finding balancing working in the fitness industry while pregnant?\nA: There is definitely a little pressure to “keep my figure” because I feel like everyone is watching, but at the same time, I really have loosened the reigns on being so regimented with my diet and exercise. There was a time when I weighed all of my food out and knew every body measurement. I don’t want to know that now. I want to know that my baby is healthy, and that I am doing the best I can with how I feel on that given day. If I feel great, I will embrace it and use that energy burst to do some extra cooking in bulk, go for a walk with the dog or head to the gym. If not, I am ok with laying low too. The best thing about running an online fitness community, is that I work from my home office. This flexibility has saved me, and I give so much credit to the working moms who have to leave the house and go to an office full-time.\nQ: What has surprised you most about being pregnant and maintaining or changing your exercise routine?\nA: I didn’t expect to continue doing back flips or handstand push ups, but I also didn’t expect to feel tired as easily. Everyone is different though, and the key for me will be to listen to my body. I crave stretching, especially for some tightness in my back. I’ve also been doing about a half hour of low impact cardio on the elliptical followed by targeted resistance training – it feels so good to get my heart rate up a little bit and engage my muscles.\nQ: Do you have a birth plan?\nA: I am working with a fantastic doctor and I plan to deliver at the beautiful, new hospital just a few miles from our house!\nQ: Any baby gear you have to have or really want?\nA: I’m still doing research about the many, MANY things that are “must-haves,” but I think next on my list is a u-shaped pillow for sleeping more comfortably. I also want to make sure to get a durable stroller – I don’t see myself jogging with one, but definitely some brisk walks in the fresh air.\nQ: What 3 words best describe the kind of mom you hope to be?\nA: Loving, inspiring and supportive.\nQ: Any pregnancy cravings?\nA: My family and friends know I have a killer sweet tooth, and a hard time turning away a dessert (especially ice cream!), but during my pregnancy I am loving salt! I’m trying to keep my choices low sodium so I don’t blow up like a blow fish, but a salty soup or sour cream and onion potato chips never tasted so good. I’ve also craved creamy textures like milk (I stick to organic!) and cheese. This is probably because I didn’t drink milk for such a long period of time during my competition days. The hardest part is making an effort to eat enough protein. Greek yogurt with fruit, lean organic beef and eggs have been my staples, but I haven’t been a fan of chicken as of late.\nQ: What is your favorite thing about pregnancy?\nA: As an admitted biology geek, I think it is just SO COOL that there is a baby growing inside of me – I mean, seriously how amazing is that? It really is a miracle! I love reading about week to week changes, hearing the baby’s heart beat and seeing the ultrasounds. Those are my favorite parts, hands down.\nQ: On the flip side; your least favorite thing?\nA: Prego brain! Oh Mylanta! I pride myself on being organized, and even thinking three steps ahead. I keep ending up at the grocery store a few times a week because I keep forgetting what I went in there for in the first place! The lack of memory is making me crazy and frustrated.\nQ: What have you found most difficult to adjust to during pregnancy?\nA: I think most people would expect me to say my changing body is the most difficult adjustment, but bring it ON – I am embracing the curves! I’m keeping my food choices clean 85% of the time and maintaining a regular gym routine, so I am not incredibly worried about the after. I don’t want to put pressure on myself to be back to my pre-pregnancy body within a certain time frame, and I plan on enjoying every second of this new adventure.\nQ: Anything else you want to add?\nA: I hope that my pregnancy journey gives me even more insight into my clients that are currently pregnant, trying to conceive or starting a journey as new mommies. I also look forward to developing some new online materials and lifestyle programs specifically for the IgniteMommies. I look forward to hearing from all of you! You can find me at www.IgniteGirls.com and connect on any of our social media platforms there.\n \n *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   * \nIf you have a question you want the Real Moms to answer, Tweet us @KnockedUpFit or Instagram @KnockedUpFitness and be sure you #RealMomBlogs\nIf you’d like to be featured on the Real Mom Blog, submit your information; including what week of your pregnancy you’re in, what pregnancy # this is for you, and a short biography to info@Knocked-UpFitness.com.\nCheck back with our Real Moms soon!\n \n \nOther Related Knocked-Up Fitness Posts:\n\nReal Mom Blogs: 28 Weeks Pregnant\n\nFit Pregnancy!! 9 Pregnancy-Friendly Treadmill Tips\nIntroducing Pregnant Real Mom Blogger Julianna\n\n4 Things You May Not Have Known About Your Pregnant Body\n\nTags: 18 weeks, 2nd Trimester, baby birth delivery, Cardio, exercise, exercise fitness workout, exercise for pregnant women, exercising while pregnant, first trimester pregnancy, Fitness, fitness and exercise, fitness in pregnancy, fitness while pregnant, health and fitness articles, health care during pregnancy, IgniteGirls, Julianna, knocked-up fitness, labor and delivery, pregnancy, pregnancy after birth, pregnancy and childbirth, pregnancy calendar, pregnancy exercise, pregnancy fitness, pregnancy fitness dvd, pregnancy health, Pregnancy Questions, pregnancy symptoms, pregnancy symptoms and signs, pregnancy timeline, pregnancy tips, pregnancy to birth, pregnancy trimester, pregnancy week by week, pregnancy workouts, pregnant, pregnant women, prenatal care, prenatal exercise, Real Mom Blog, Real moms, Real talk, safe exercises during pregnancy, second trimester pregnancy, stages of pregnancy, symptoms during pregnancy, week-by-week pregnancyShare:"