"I don’t know anyone who doesn’t love getting mail– especially the kind of mail that you weren’t expecting, and particularly the kind of mail that includes gifts! I remember when I was pregnant with my first little one, just about anything that I saw for babies made me freak out with excitement, I was so excited to explore the world of products for my baby. With baby #2, I’ve become a bit stubborn. I find myself less likely to try new products– because it becomes a small project; reading reviews, researching the company, and learning about every ingredient it’s made of. For all these reasons and more, the MommiesFirst Subscription Box is an amazing way to explore new products, which I’ll likely be using for both my boys in the future! The boxes, developed by a real mom, MommiesFirst CEO Lorena Pacheco Scott, are designed to save moms time and money by offering the most effective, natural products for mom and baby.\n\nThe first thing you’ll notice when you receive your MommiesFirst box (after the beautiful box itself) is a personalized note with you and your baby’s’ name. My note; to Julianna & Lincoln, briefly discusses the ideal time frame for the products, and why they are relevant to your baby’s current developmental milestones. The box I received was ideal for age 4-5 months, and is described as the “Medicine Cabinet” box. It is centered around baby discovering the world, and putting everything in his mouth (yep–we’re here!).. and along with this discovery often comes some germs and sniffles.\nAfter the note I found the product cards, fastened together with a cute little diaper safety pin. This is such an important touch for me, because the last thing I have time for or want to do is to have to go online and research everything in the box– I just want to start using the products! With the product cards you get an overview of the product & company, ‘how to use’ directions, reasons why MommiesFirst loves the product, and where you can find it if you want to continue to use them. Genius!\n \nIn my subscription box I received:\n-Boogie Wipes\n-Boiron Camilia teething drops\n-Boiron Coryzalia cold drops\n-WELEDA Calendula Weather Protection Cream\n-Thera Wise VpR Vaporizing Rub\n-Parents Canada Magazine (the newest issue)\n \nLiving on the East Coast, we’ve had the wackiest weather I can recall– seriously, yesterday I could sunbathe and today it’s snowing– and it’s April!! With all that weather change, colds and sniffles are going around like crazy, so this subscription box has me prepared!\nTo start with, I’ve been holding a Boogie Wipes coupon hostage in my ‘odds & ends’ drawer for several months, so I was pretty excited to see a large package of them in my MommiesFirst box. I loved these gentle, effective wipes for both my boys, and will likely purchase them for my purse/diaper bag again.\nNext, the Boiron products–natural homeopathic medicines that are safe for babies as young as 1 month! I try to avoid medicine whenever possible for both my boys, and since infants don’t have many medication options to begin with, these drinkable drops are the perfect alternative. While I haven’t had a chance to try the teething bottles yet, my 3 year old had a bit of a dry cough one evening, and after 3 single dose bottles spread out over a day– he stopped coughing! And since my little one has been drooling puddles everywhere– I think we’ll be making use of the teething doses soon.\nWith all the nose wiping that goes on when baby has a cold, the WELEDA Weather Protection Cream is an excellent addition to the medicine cabinet box. When you’re constantly wiping and rubbing baby’s nose, it can get red and irritated– so this gentle, fresh smelling lotion is great. I’ve repurposed this cream for a number of things, from protecting my hands (I’m constantly washing them after changing diapers and before feeding), and since we’re in early spring and we’ve been trying to get outside as often as possible, the WELEDA cream has also been great for treating and protecting my 3 year olds skin from wind-burn. A perfect addition for any time of year.\nThe Thera Wise vaporizing rub might be my favorite product in the subscription box for several reasons– it’s all natural, plant based, effective, safe for infants, and gentle. This cream leaves a much lighter scent than the vaporizing rubs we remember, is super gentle on the skin, and is paraben and petroleum free. It does say on the packaging to consult a physician if you’re pregnant or breastfeeding– but for baby the instructions are to apply to the bottoms of feet and cover with socks. It also claims to be effective on muscle aches, and since I love natural products, I’ll probably use this on me as much as baby.\nFinally, the latest issue of Parents Canada magazine was included. This is great for any mom, because the magazine often offers information on many stages of parenting, so there’s always something relevant. Plus it’s an excuse for mom to take some ‘me’ time with some good reading material. Depending on your location, you might receive a different (similar) magazine, but being in Canada, this magazine is relevant to me and my location!\nI will reiterate, I’m product stubborn. I love all-natural products, and this box provides moms with several amazing products that they might not have heard of before. Subscription Boxes by MommiesFirst are available for every stage of pregnancy (including a special ‘shower’ box if you know a pregnant mama!) and throughout the first year, and are a great value at $30/month, the retail value of the box I received was about $55 and shipping was free. This is a great gift idea for moms, or a special treat for yourself if you’re pregnant or have a new baby. If you’re like me and love natural products, but often find yourself in a product rut, this is a great way to introduce new, effective products that are tested & loved by other moms!\nThank you so much to Lorena Scott & The MommiesFirst Team for providing beautiful care packages to Moms & Babies (like my boys and I) for the most exciting (and sometimes stressful) times in the first years! To order Subscription Boxes from MommiesFirst for you, your baby, or someone you know visit the MommiesFirst website here.\n\nAnd don’t forget to sign up for the Knocked-Up Fitness Newsletter for more great tips!\n \nTags: 1st Trimester, 2nd Trimester, 3rd Trimester, After Baby, baby, baby care, Breastfeeding, Erica Ziel, healthy pregnancy, Julianna, Knocked-UpFitness, Lorena Scott, MommiesFirst, Postpartum, pregnancy, pregnancy health, pregnant, pregnant women, prenatal, prenatal health, Real momsShare:"