"Officially 8 full months pregnant, or starting the 9th month– or 32 weeks? Calculating how far along I am is probably the most confusing part of pregnancy for me. With so many ways to say, “I’m almost due” at this point I just stick to telling interested strangers that baby is expected sometime in January. Most doctors will tell you a due date is essentially a ‘due estimation’– since all babies develop at different paces; some come early, some come late and according to my doctor only about 2% of babies are born on their due date! With my last I went 4 weeks early, and with this baby I could go two weeks overdue– you just never know. This means baby #2 could, realistically, be born in December, January, or February– so I’ve decided instead of a due date, I’m calling it a due season!\n\n \nAll About Baby\nAt this point, babies will start to really vary in size– since some are 10lbs at birth, while others weigh in around 6 full-term. The estimated size of little bean this week is about 4lbs and 17.5 inches, and baby is still trying to pack on as much fat as possible to prepare for life on the outside. Luckily, this hasn’t meant that I’m packing on the pounds, but at my appointment this week I officially hit 20lbs weight gain– I gained about 27 with my first, so hopefully I’m on the right track to repeat! Baby is working on perfecting the skills needed at birth, and at this point we’re just waiting on lung development for baby to be completely ready!!\nMore About Mama\nWith this baby, I’m really noticing lower back and hip joint discomfort in the last two weeks. It hurts to get in and out of the car, bed, or my shoes– which is annoying. Sitting on a stability ball is about the only thing I’ve found that eases it, doing hip rotations and Knocked-Up Fitness Push Prep while seated on the ball improves my ability to stand up without whining, which I’m extremely grateful for! Otherwise, I’m still feeling pretty good when exercising, adding in modifications where necessary, since touching my toes has become a bit more challenging (try putting on socks!). My one major physical complaint is the all-day heartburn, I’m really, really tired of feeling like a fire-breathing dragon, and I can’t wait for that part to subside!\nI’m also noticing a bit of an energy decrease, just normal pregnancy fatigue, but none the less challenging; especially at work. Trying to take a few minutes to do a task at work that involves sitting, staying hydrated, and getting to bed at night (or, passing out reading a magazine at 9pm) is really important at this point. Two important points this week: 1) I have learned that having a healthy snack every few hours makes a world of difference. I am entirely obsessed with clementines! And 2) exercising really does energize you– in the least it makes you feel like a super-hero for making it through when you’re tired! I will usually try to relax for 15mins before attempting to exercise if I’m feeling really run down, since I don’t want to overdo it this far in, and can usually perform exercises more efficiently and properly if I’ve had a chance to recharge first.\nWith all the holiday preparations going on, it’s really easy to leave exercise off the to-do list, but especially with baby coming soon I think it’s super important to fit in at least a few minutes every day. Try some of these simple moves and tips from Erica if you’re cleared for exercise but strapped for time!\nJulianna\n*   *   *   *   *   *   *\nOther Related Knocked-Up Fitness Posts:\n\nPrenatal Digital Fitness Program\n\nPrenatal & Postnatal Exercise: Forward Rolls\n\nFoam Rolling to Release Tension in Your Lower Back!\n\n\nTags: 32 weeks, 3rd Trimester, Braxton Hicks, Erica Ziel, exercise, exercise modifications, Exercise Video, Fitness, healthy pregnancy, Julianna, knocked-up fitness, Legs, My Pregnancy, Nutrition, Pilates, pregnancy, pregnancy advice, pregnancy complications, pregnancy health, pregnancy timeline, pregnant, prenatal exercise, Prenatal Fitness, Real Mom Blogs, Real moms, Real talk, stages of pregnancy, stretching, week-by-week pregnancy, YogaShare:"