"Are you one of the many moms reaching for effective relief from pregnancy symptoms, but wanting more holistic alternatives to chemicals and artificial products? There are lots of natural ways to reduce all kinds of discomforts of which many can be especially problematic during pregnancy. As parents, we want to protect our children from harsh chemicals for life, so we’re sharing 9 products we use to replace chemicals in our medicine cabinets for natural remedies for pregnancy symptoms.\n\n1. Ginger & Peppermint- Ginger is great raw– straight from the root, and can also be found in supplement form. Add a few slices of fresh grated ginger to your water bottle, food, or pregnancy-safe tea to help eliminate nausea, gas, indigestion, and bloating. Peppermint extract smells fantastic and is really effective at reducing symptoms of nausea. Adding fresh mint leaves to water and food, as well as using diluted essential oils for aromatherapy, can be beneficial for nausea, exhaustion, and indigestion. \n2. Tea Tree Oil- With so many uses, tea tree oil is a staple for many natural product seekers.  Tea tree oil has anti-fungal properties, and can be used diluted with body washes or oils to help combat blemishes and oily skin or hair.  Add a few drops to hot water in a sink or steamer and you can help clean congested sinuses, since many commercial sinus and congestion medications are not recommended for use during pregnancy, this natural oil steam can provide a lot of relief if you get the sniffles! \n3. Iron- Iron deficiency is very common among pregnant women, and can be effectively treated by including iron-rich snacks and meals (one of my personal favorites is pumpkin seeds!) There are also many iron supplements available, that can be safe during pregnancy when discussed with a health professional. Low-iron can cause extreme poor body temperature regulation, fatigue, exhaustion, faintness and weakness– so be sure to discuss these symptoms with your doctor and adjust your diet if necessary! \n4. Aloe Vera Juice- Just 2 tablespoons before bed can effectively treat constipation, which is extremely common during pregnancy. Aloe Vera juice is also an excellent source of hydration, improving dry skin and reducing blemishes. \n5. Probiotics- Available from many sources; including supplements, beverages, and foods such as yogurt– probiotics help maintain good bacterial balance in the stomach, which can be especially disturbed by hormonal changes in pregnancy and postpartum. Probiotics can also help with constipation, loose stool, and indigestion, but also help maintain total complete digestive health.\n6. Magnesium- Experiencing leg cramps? This truly versatile mineral regulates body mechanical functions, and can be used to alleviate many pregnancy related symptoms! By drawing water into the bowels, magnesium helps alleviate constipation; it also encourages better sleep, decreased fatigue, increased alertness and brain function, better bone health, improved insulin sensitivity, leg cramps, and restlessness. So many of these symptoms are associated with pregnancy, so magnesium really is a great choice for many pregnant mamas!\n7. Oils- Jojoba, Olive, Coconut, Avocado…They are all fantastic alternatives to chemical-laden products that can disrupt body functions and hormones. Since pregnancy can increase your sensitivity to chemicals (and because many commercial shampoos, washes, and lotions are full of artificial chemicals) natural oils are a great alternative for healthier skin and reducing dangerous chemical exposure to both you and your baby. Aside from cosmetic uses, natural oils can also be used in place of commercial massage oils– massaging can help promote circulation, lymphatic drainage, and relaxation– some excellent benefits for mamas! \n8. Witch Hazel- A really great product to help alleviate dry skin, heal blemishes, and treat hemorrhoids that might appear during pregnancy and after delivery.\n9, Dandelion Leaf Tea– Completely safe during pregnancy, dandelion leaf tea provides gentle diuretic action with the addition of potassium, to support kidney function and provide tons of nutrients for pregnancy. This tea can also be used to reduce the symptoms of morning sickness, and help alleviate fluid retention– a very common pregnancy concern.\nAlong with all of these fantastic choices, and a regular and safe exercise program, pregnant mama’s HAVE to understand the importance of water. Water without sugar and other artificial additives will be every pregnant woman’s #1 defense against many of the typical pregnancy ailments. Adequate water intake can help reduce nausea, fatigue, cramps, body pain, dry skin, indigestion, gas, headaches, constipation, and so many other symptoms that pregnant moms deal with. \nWhen making changes to your approach to health, be sure to consult your physician about the products your using and the health concerns you want to address! \n\n\n\t\t\n\t\n\nTags: 1st Trimester, 2nd Trimester, 3rd Trimester, Diet, Erica Ziel, health, healthy pregnancy, Julianna, knocked-up fitness, Nutrition, Postnatal, Postpartum, pregnancy, pregnancy complications, pregnant, pregnant women, prenatal, prenatal health, Real moms, safety, stages of pregnancy, supplements, symptoms during pregnancy, week-by-week pregnancyShare:"