"Here are several tips that could help you fight fatigue:\n\nAsk your baby very nicely to “PLEASE” sleep through the night, all 8 hours! We wish right.  Although some moms are lucky enough, if you are one of those moms who’s babies actually sleep more than 2-3 hours at a time take advantage of it.  For those of you who’s babies don’t sleep, this would have been me, so I feel your sleep deprived anxiety, you absolutely MUST sleep when your baby sleeps! Ask for help from your husband, relatives, close friends, those you trust to care for you baby.  Just an hour or two once in a while so you can sneak away and get in a good nap to help rejuvenate.\nSupplementation can help for sure.  I recommend adding a B-complex vitamin, try Nature’s Made Super B Complex liquid softgels, which you can find at Target.  Start out taking 1 capsuke in the morning, possibly a 2nd midday, but avoid taking in the evening as it can increase your energy.\nI also recommend adding an Omega-3 supplement, you should already be taking Omega-3’s as they are very important for your baby’s development but also you, as mom, who is being depleted of nutrients that your baby is taking from you.\nExercise can help tremendously, even if you are extremely tired/fatigued give exercise a try and you should feel a spike in your energy level.  I know it’s hard to get out the door and move when you feel sluggish, but take your new little one with you, the fresh air will be good for you both.   I recommend going for walks every single day for at least 30 minutes, 2-3 times per day.\nLastly, Eat healthy!  Avoid sugars, as they will slow down weight loss postpartum & also leave you feeling sluggish, this is what you are trying to avoid.  If you are going to drink coffee keep it to decaf or only 8oz of regular coffee and drink in the morning not later in the day so you won’t have  a problem falling asleep at night. Here’s an example of a healthy menu postpartum:\n\nBreakfast: Oatmeal w/Berries & 2% or whole Milk\nSnack: Apple w/Natural Peanut Butter or Hummus\nLunch: Spinach Salad w/Chicken Breast, all the Veggies you want, use 1 tbsp olive oil & 2 tbsp vinegar for the dressing.\nSnack: 1 oz. Dark Chocolate\nDinner: Same as lunch\nSnack: 2 Hardboiled Eggs & Grapes\nTips: When you make a salad or sandwich or anything that can be prepared ahead and eaten later always make enough for a snack or meal later or the next day, to save time in preparing food, as I know it’s challenging with little ones. For more healthy recipes, menu planning and grocery lists check out the 21-day Healthy Lifestyle for the Busy Mom Program!\nTags: After Baby, Diet, Erica Ziel, exercise, Fatigue, Fitness, knocked-up fitness, Nutrition, Omega-3, postnatal fitness, Postpartum, Sleep, Vitamin BShare:"