"Let’s be real; we all say “time flies” for a reason. Even if you are a planning queen, time can often zip by as you focus on your kiddos, to-do list, work, significant other, and if you’re lucky, squeezing in some restorative me-time. When we get caught up in a blur of busyness, exercise and healthy eating can sometimes take a back seat. If you aren’t paying attention to your body, that’s when your weight can easily creep up without you noticing. Take back control of your body by using our top 10 signs you may actually need to lose weight.\n10. You have a gut feeling. We usually have all the answers if we just pay attention. Is the voice in your head whispering to you? Do you tell yourself …\nMy clothes seem tighter.\nI haven’t used my gym membership in a while.\nI am eating a lot of junk lately.\nI think I go out to eat too much.\nWhen was the last time I exercised?\nOftentimes we know that we need to lose weight, we just don’t want to admit it to ourselves. We have to get quiet long enough to listen to what our intuition is telling us. You probably already have the answer; it’s just tough to be honest when you don’t like the answer. Ignoring something you know you need to do only contributes to your stress and takes a mental toll. Once you make the shift from worry to action, you can drop the emotional and physical weight.\n9. Your doctor or your numbers tell you. Some doctors will tell it to you straight and it’s no fun to hear. If your doctor doesn’t go there, your numbers will always tell the story. If you have high blood pressure and cholesterol and/or you are told you are borderline diabetic, it’s probably time to pay attention to those extra pounds. Excess fat, particularly belly fat, can increase your risk of heart disease, Type 2 diabetes, and result in high cholesterol and high blood pressure, according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Weight loss can take your numbers right back down into a healthy range. According to the National Heart, Blood and Lung Institute (NHBLI), inactive people are nearly twice as likely to develop heart disease as those who are more active. When you lose weight, you can avoid the risks associated with these medical conditions and often avoid medications.\n8. Your partner complains that you snore. Loud snoring with gasping sounds can be a symptom of sleep apnea, a condition where your breathing stops repeatedly for 10 seconds or more while you sleep. The disorder results in decreased oxygen in the blood, and results in a poor night’s sleep because it awakens sleepers throughout the night. The most common cause of obstructive sleep apnea is excess weight and obesity, according to WebMD. If you feel tired most days and you are told you snore loudly at night, you could have sleep apnea. Lose weight and there’s a chance you can skip the sleep specialist, wearing a medical device while you sleep, and this dangerous disorder.\n\n\n\n\n\n7. Your weight only goes up. Do you steadily gain several pounds each year? If you look at what you weigh over several years you notice that it’s only going in one direction—up—it’s time to put a stop to weight creep. If you put on a few pounds each year, take notice. A couple pounds a year may not sound like a lot, but it can compound over time leaving you with a whole lot of weight to take off.\nRelated: How To Avoid Weight Creep\n6. Your joints ache or hurt. Are your knees, hips and back aching all the time? Excess weight puts pressure on joints and can wear down the tissue around them causing joints to ache and movement to be uncomfortable.\n5. You live in the excuses zone. If you find yourself rationalizing a lot of your choices by selling yourself on the notion of how busy you are and how there’s no time for fancy meal planning and working out, it might be time to drop more than just the excuses. Rationalizing our choices is an easy way to make ourselves feel better in the moment, but it doesn’t help us live better. Get brutally honest with yourself in the name of self-love. Figure out if you are using excuses as an easy way out from dealing with recent weight gain. Our bodies usually tell the truth.\n\n\n\n\n\n4. Even the tiniest bit of exercise gets you out of breath. Do you get winded with just regular activities or walking up your stairs at home? As you gain weight, your respiratory capacity for muscle function decreases, according to The National Institute of Health. Breathlessness is associated with inactivity, a sign that your heart and lungs aren’t getting the workout they need to operate optimally.\nRelated: How To Stay Patient In Your Weight Loss Journey\n3. You notice your clothes don’t fit anymore. You love slipping on your comfy jeans until they are no longer comfy. If your jeans are suddenly too tight or they don’t fit at all, it’s likely a sign you’ve put on some weight. Your favorite jeans can be a gauge to your weight.\n2. Your numbers are off. If your body mass index (BMI) is elevated and your waist is more than 35 inches (measured just over your hip bones) it’s probably time to drop the pounds. The CDC reports that your risk for diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol all go up when your waist measures more than 35 inches. BMI uses your height and weight to estimate your body fat and put you in a range of underweight, normal weight or overweight. BMI readings under 18.5 are considered underweight. If you fall between 18.5 and 24.9, you’re considered normal, while a BMI of 30 or higher qualifies as overweight. While BMI doesn’t tell the whole story (because it can’t tell the difference between fat and muscle), it can be a way to gauge if you are overweight. Calculate your BMI here: The National Institutes of Health.\n1. You don’t feel so good. If you are tender to the touch (similar to the feeling of bruising), fatigued a lot of the time and lack energy, it could be due to inflammation caused by excess fat in your body. An aching feeling can be a direct result of too much fat. Constant fatigue can also be caused by internal inflammation.\nDid a lot of these signs and symptoms ring true? If so, give yourself some credit for becoming fully aware of what’s going on with your body. Don’t get discouraged. Here at Get Healthy U, we are all about helping you to get the weight off in fun ways (we actually want you to love the exercise you do) and still be able to enjoy delicious food. Get back to a weight where you feel your best with our healthy solutions. We believe in you. And we are here for you every step of the way!\nREAD THIS NEXT: 6 Common Mistakes That Prevent Weight Loss"