"Moms are the best. They hug, they help, and they love unconditionally. That’s why on Mother’s Day, we need to treat them like the queens they are and give them the best gift of all—the gift of good health!\nHere are our favorite gifts that will make mom feel pampered, refreshed, and keep her hugging, helping, and loving for years to come!\nAnd after you look through this list of awesome gifts for mom, check out our suggestions of ways to honor your mom this Mother’s Day without spending any cash.\nAfter all, sometimes it’s quality time that they really want!\n\n\n\n\n\nBelow are the item details listed above:\n\nYeti Rambler, $29.99. Staying hydrated is one of the major pillars of good health, and giving your mom the gift of hydration is great, but STYLISH hydration is even better! These YETI ramblers keep drinks cold for 24 hours, warm for 12 hours, and come in a wide array of colors and sizes.\nBunny Eye Mask, $17.99. A personal favorite at the Get Healthy U office is this adorable fuzzy eye mask. Great for those mornings when you want to sleep in juuuuust a little longer!\nGarden Tools, $17.99. For all the moms with a green thumb, this is an adorable 3-piece gardening tool. Your mother will free stress-free while gardening in the fresh air and sunshine.\nToiletries Bag, $13.49. We love the idea of using this travel toiletry bag for storing post-workout beauty products. Easy to pack in the gym bag and go!\nWoven Blanket, $44.99. Being a mom can be a lot of work! Give your mom the gift of comfort with this adorable woven blanket. At the end of a long day, she’ll be able to curl up on the couch with this cozy piece… and she’ll thank you for it!\nNespresso Machine, $159.99. Nespresso is the new Keurig, offering single-serve, freshly brewed coffee with cream to deliver an authentic espresso to any Mom this Mother’s Day!\nCandle, $12.99. For any mom, a little relaxation is well deserved. This La Jolie Muse aromatherapy scented candle will bring a sense of balance and calming energy into your home. They are a perfect addition to any relaxation routine.\nHand-stamped Spoon, $18.00. Here at the Get Healthy U office, we LOVE these darling hand-stamped stirring spoons. This is a great gift for moms who love their morning coffee, or afternoon tea!\nNike Waistband, $22.49. This items is GREAT for storing your phone, ID, or credit card while your busting your butt at the gym! Just clip it around the waist and you won’t have to worry about storing your belongings in a locker or cubby.\nSlippers, $18.99. Who doesn’t love cozy slippers? We think all moms deserve a moment to put their feet up, and what better way to relax than to have your feet in these soft slippers.\nMarble Cutting Board, $34.99. This is a great gift for moms who love hosting people at their home! This classic marble cutting board can be used to prepare the hor d’oeuvres… or serve them!\nEssential Oils Diffuser, $30.99. A happy, healthy mom needs time to relax, de-stress, and “escape.” Improve mom’s getaway space by turning her room into a mini-vacation with an aromatherapy essential oils diffuser. There are 7 different lighting colors that can be set at a “bright” or “dim” mode.\nMarble Coasters, $27.99. These coasters are great for protecting kitchen surfaces, and do so in STYLE! These high qualities, polished white marble coasters will look great in any kitchen theme or color.\n\nAre gifts not her thing? No problem. There are plenty of other ways to serve your mom this Mother’s Day. Let your mom know how much you care with these 10 ideas to create memories that last.\n\nPlan an experience gift your mom will love. Purposefully create a memory by planning something your mom loves to do. Schedule a brunch where she doesn’t have to do any cooking or cleaning. Or if it’s your mom’s thing, plan a day together at a museum or go antiquing, followed by a special lunch. Or if your mom loves the spa, get those massages and pedicures together. Don’t want to break the bank? Rent her favorite movie and watch it together with some popcorn. Or take a walk together at an arboretum or park where you can catch up and take in springtime at the same time.\nWrite a letter. Unplug from the quick digital messages and write your mom a handwritten letter, expressing what she means to you. Not only is a handwritten letter a rare thing these days, (she’s probably not expecting a letter), it’s also a keepsake she can save forever.\nGive her a day. Maybe the one thing your mom never gets is a day of her own to spend as she wishes. Take care of your mom’s responsibilities to free up her time. Show up with dinner, clean her house, or run her errands. Do all three to really WOW her. Free up your mom’s time so she can spend it on herself. Maybe she will put her feet up and read a great book.\nTake pictures. Round up all of your siblings and arrange a professional photo shoot for the family. Include your kids if you can (every mom loves time spent with the grandkids!). Or if your family is spread across the country, how about a photo album? Shutterfly photo books are user-friendly and can be an inexpensive way to create a customized photo book with fun text and graphics.\nGarden together. Instead of giving your mom flowers, plant a small garden together or a special plant. Not only is it quality time together, but it’s a lasting (blooming!) memory of your day together. Show up with a gift basket of garden supplies like pretty gardening tools, new gloves, and a special plant, to start your day out right. Enjoy your quality time together gardening in the sunshine.\nPay tribute. Perhaps Mother’s Day is a difficult day for you because you’ve lost your mother, a step-mother, or a grandmother. You can still celebrate Mother’s Day by honoring the memory of your mother or grandmother. Buy your mom’s favorite flowers. Light a candle. Frame a photo of the two of you. Or, donate your time on Mother’s Day in your mother’s memory and volunteer for a charitable organization or visit a nursing home.\nWork on traditions together. While you and your mom may have your traditions, ask your mom what traditions she had with her mother, and consider carrying those traditions on together and passing them down to your own kids. Family traditions are a special way to connect across generations and carry history into the present day.\nMake a music playlist. Put all of your mom’s favorite songs together on one playlist for her. It takes time and thought to download your mom’s favorite tunes together, and it’s a gift your mom can replay again and again. The right musical mix can inspire your mom and show her how much you care.\nWorkout together. Can you buy some yoga classes the two of you can take together? Or maybe some spinning classes where you can meet up on the weekend? Get it all set up and give your mom the gift of health and quality time together. It’s an experience gift the two of you can enjoy together well beyond Mother’s Day!\nMake a video. Shoot a video capturing how much you appreciate mom. Get all of your siblings to join in and capture what mom means to each of you. Make a multimedia collage with the QWIKI app and choose from pictures, video clips and tunes from your phone to make your mom a video montage. Now she has a memory she can watch over and over.\n\nREAD THIS NEXT: 9 Workout Tips For Busy Moms"