"For those of us who struggle to digest dairy, watching our friends guzzle down delicious ice cream while we are stuck with popsicles or sorbet can be downright disappointing. Although these fruit-based frozen treats can be tasty, I often find myself yearning for the ability to enjoy a creamier dessert like my stronger-stomached friends. Fortunately, lactose intolerance is so common that grocery stores and specialty ice cream companies are yielding to the pleas of the dairy-free population who desire a treat that resembles the flavor and texture of real, velvety, milky ice cream.\nHowever, as everyone who has ever tried lactose-free products knows first-hand, some are far better than others. To avoid wasting time and money on chalky, unappetizing dairy-free products, here is a list of the absolute best dairy-free ice cream treats! These are so yummy, even dairy eaters will want a taste.\n1. SO Delicious\n\n\n\n\nMy absolute favorite brand of dairy-free ice cream is SO Delicious. They offer almond, soy, coconut, and cashew milk ice cream, in a variety of different flavors and kinds of treats. The consistency of all of their products resembles cow milk ice cream to a tee and the taste is, as the brand title so accurately describes, SOOOO delicious. Of the wide variety of options, must try is the Salted Carmel Cluster ice cream made with cashew milk, the Gluten Free Cookie Dough, and Cookies N Cream flavors of coconut milk ice cream, and the Minis Mocha Almond Fudge bars made with almond milk ice cream. Available at most groceries.\nRelated: 6 Uses For Coconut Oil\n2. Trader Joe’s\n\n\n\n\nSecond on my list of faves is Trader Joe’s dairy-free ice cream. I’m a total Trader Joe’s groupie and love their high-quality products at such a low price. In terms of dairy-free frozen treats, they offer coconut milk and soy milk ice creams. Both Coconut Milk Non-Dairy Ice Cream flavors, the chocolate and strawberry, are so creamy and delicious, perfect for a sundae, a shake, or straight out of the tub. But be careful with that one, it’s difficult to stop once you start! For a Ben and Jerry’s Cherry Garcia like flavor, try their Soy Creamy Cherry Chocolate Chip soy milk ice cream.\n3. DF Mavens\n\n\n\n\nMade in New York, this up and coming dairy-free ice cream brand claims to be “The finest dairy-free ice cream in the world.” Sound enticing? It should. All DF Mavens ice creams are dairy-free, gluten-free, preservative and cholesterol-free, and kosher! The brand has a coconut milk collection, an almond milk collection, a soy collection, and a no sugar-added collection. They boast the largest variety of unique flavors like Alphonso Mango (coconut milk), Mint Almond Cookie (almond milk), and Sicilian Hazelnut Truffle (soy milk). Their newest product is frozen bars that come in a variety of favorite coconut, soy, and almond milk flavors. Order on the company’s website, or if you are from New York, head to the DF Mavens store in Manhattan.\n4. Luna and Larry’s Coconut Bliss\n\n\n\n\nCoconut milk enthusiasts, look no further. With flavors for every palette from Chocolate Peanut Butter, Mint Galactica, Ginger Cookie Carmel, and Mocha Maca Crunch, Coconut Bliss uses only organic coconut milk ice cream. Luna and Larry’s also features quality natural ingredients such as agave, fair trade coffee, cocoa beans, and a variety of superfoods. Find your bliss at most grocery stores!\n5. Taste The Dream\n\n\n\n\nI grew up drinking Rice Dream rice milk so upon discovering that the Taste The Dream brand had ventured into dairy-free frozen desserts, I was beyond excited to try. While I am not the biggest fan of their rice and soy frozen products, I love their almond milk Almond Dream frozen desserts. My favorite Almond Dream desserts are their Lil Dreamers ice cream sandwiches, for an edible throwback to your childhood, and their deliciously decadent vanilla ice cream. Sold at most groceries.\nBonus: Homemade Dairy-Free Ice Cream Recipes\nIf you want to venture into homemade ice cream, try these three delicious dairy-free recipes!\nDairy-Free Dark Chocolate Ice Cream\nBanana “Ice Cream” with Toasted Coconut, Almond, and Dark Chocolate\nDairy-Free Chocolate Chip Ice Cream Cookie Sandwich\nREAD THIS NEXT: What Is The Best Digestive Health Product For You?"