"Sticky, busy summer days leave us yearning for cool drinks to help us beat the heat. Whether it’s frozen lemonade or an icy Frappuccino, summer drinks are undeniably tempting. Unfortunately, most are super high in calories and their sugar content will knock your socks off. If you are looking for an easy way to cut calories this summer, while still enjoying refreshing and yummy drinks, try some of these healthy alternatives to your favorites. They are seriously delicious; you won’t even taste the difference!\n1. Frappuccinos\n\n\n\n\nThe Frappuccino, brimming with rich chocolaty goodness, is the go-to summer coffee drink for an ice-cold pick-me-up. Sadly, chocolaty goodness does not translate to good for you. Most grande Frappucinos are over 400 calories, which is upwards of 30 percent of your recommended daily calorie intake. Further, the drink is around 30 percent of your total daily fat and 60 percent of your total daily saturated fat! With 66 grams of sugar, this drink should be a reserved for special occasions, rather than a part of your daily routine.\nFortunately, not all icy coffee drinks are made the same. Satisfy your caffeine craving with this Healthy Starbucks Frappuccino Copycat that is only 45 calories and has ZERO grams of sugar!\n2. Margaritas\n\n\n\n\nThere is nothing better than summer happy hour, and what better drink to sip on the patio than a frozen margarita? While the margarita may be your drink of choice, and there is no harm in having a classic margarita every once and a while, they are truly a nutritional nightmare. Your typical restaurant frozen margarita contains over 700 calories, and over half of your daily sodium intake from the salty rim! Not to mention most of the pre-made mixes contain chemicals and/or food coloring. High in sugar, and consequently carbohydrates, this frosty favorite should be consumed in moderation.\nDon’t want to miss out on the fun? Try our delicious and healthy Sassy Skinny Margarita that uses fresh limes and an alternative sweetener for a guilt-free summer cocktail!\nRelated: 12 Things You Can Do Now for a Healthier Summer\n3. Frozen Lemonade\n\n\n\n\nNothing says summer than a tall glass of lemonade. While it is difficult pass up cute neighborhood lemonade stands, it is important to be conscious of how often we are consuming this sugary drink. Frozen lemonade, lemonade’s summer time younger sister, contains around 300 calories and 65 grams of sugar.\nFor the same refreshing effect, try this quick and easy Sugar-Free Frozen Lemonade from Busy But Healthy that is made with stevia and is only 44 calories!\n4. Shakes\n\n\n\n\nIce cream screams summer days, and while milkshakes and malts are a portable way to satisfy your warm weather ice cream cravings, they are not helping your waistline. A small Wendy’s Frosty is 247 calories and nearly 50 grams of sugar. That’s over 12 teaspoons of sugar. Yikes!\nTake a pass on the fast food shake and try our delicious Peanut Butter Cup Protein Smoothie for a healthy alternative to your favorite frozen dessert that tastes as good as real thing!\nRelated: 9 Low-Calorie Cocktail Recipes for Healthier Sipping\n5. Gatorade\n\n\n\n\nGatorade, the beloved drink of sweaty athletes, is a great thirst quencher that is easy to throw in your kid’s soccer or baseball bag. Although the summer go-to-drink is high in electrolytes, which are good for us, Gatorade is also high in calories, sugar, food coloring, and chemicals. The neon-colored summer staple has 150 calories, 35 grams of sugar, and 38 carbohydrates, and that’s for one serving!\nLooking for a healthier, more natural sports drink to keep your kids and yourself properly hydrated this summer? Try Aspire Beverages! Refreshing and natural, Aspire offers just as many electrolytes as Gatorade, but is free of high fructose corn syrup, artificial colors, and flavors. What’s more, the drink is only 35 calories! Five flavors to choose from and quickly becoming a favorite of well-informed moms.\nREAD THIS NEXT: How To Make Your Own Almond Milk"