"Ah, the joys of summer: patio happy hours, outdoor adventures, beach days, and more. But some things aren’t so pleasant, like sweaty limbs, sun-damaged skin, and heat-induced breakouts. The skin dilemmas of spring and summer are nothing compared to winter’s dryness and hair loss, but warmer temperatures still bring their own slew of issues. Rapidly changing temps can cause everything from sunburns to unexpected breakouts and more! Read on to learn how to solve the top five skin problems you might have this season.\nProblem #1:  Lackluster skin that’s still dull from winter\n\n\n\n\n\nSolution: Heading into spring, many of us suffer from dull, uneven skin that hasn’t seen the light of day in a while. To give yourself a natural glow as winter fades into warmer months, focus on beautifying from the inside out. Instead of shelling out a ton of money for an expensive facial, make sure you’re getting the proper nutrients your skin needs to look healthy and radiant. While fresh fruits and veggies are always our number one go-to, I’m also a huge fan of New Chapter’s Perfect Hair, Skin & Nails, which contains the rare plant-nutrient Astaxanthin. This nutrient (sourced from organic algae) is clinically proven to reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles and improve skin elasticity*.\n\n\n\n\n\nIt’s also 50x more powerful than common antioxidants like vitamin C and beta-carotene. Taking Perfect Hair, Skin & Nails is one of my favorite skincare secrets for all year round, but especially to transition to warmer months when I want to look radiant and natural. It also features a superfood botanical blend of fermented herbs for stress, energy and digestive support—key areas that can affect the health of your skin.*\nYou can purchase New Chapter’s Perfect Hair, Skin & Nails supplement from Amazon by clicking here.\nProblem #2:  Sunburnt Skin\nSolution: It’s easy to get overeager to soak up some Vitamin D in the summer! Bounce back from your burn by applying aloe vera gel to the affected area two to three times per day. We’re also a fan of yogurt-based (yes, yogurt!) facial products because they contain lactic acid, which is known for its calming and soothing properties.\nProblem # 3: Dark Spots (Melasma)\nSolution: Dark spots on the forehead or cheeks (also called melasma) are usually exacerbated in the summer. Use a dark spot corrector or even better, address the cause of the issue by staying out of the sun! Wear a wide-brimmed hat and high SPF whenever outdoors to prevent more dark spots from cropping up.\nRelated: Is There Such A Thing As A Healthy Tan?\nProblem #4: Unexpected Acne Breakouts\nSolution: You know what has a field day in hotter temps and increased sweat? Acne-causing bacteria. Definitely always shower right away after your summer workouts, but if you’re just out and about outside, carry oil-blotting wipes to wipe away excess sweat. You can also switch from a liquid foundation to a natural mineral powder foundation; the formula will soak up excess oil and give you more of a matte look for hot and sweaty days. Also be sure to wash your face each night!\nProblem #5: Dry, Rough Legs and Feet\nSolution: When your feet are used to hiding beneath big woolly socks and boots all winter, spring and summer can come as quite a shock. Slough away dead skin by exfoliating all over, but especially on rough patches on the legs and feet. Follow up with a shea-based moisturizer for all-day hydration or a self-tanner that will give your legs the summery glow you’ll want to show off all season long.\nThis is a sponsored post from New Chapter Vitamins & Supplements, who provided me with a free product for our review. We only partner with brands that align with our mission of health, wellness, and positivity—whose awesome products we think can actually improve your daily life. All opinions are my own.\n*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.\nCertified Organic by International Certification Services, Inc., Medina, ND, USA\nREAD THIS NEXT: What To Wear For Summer Outdoor Workouts"