"In less than .45 seconds, I found 82,300,000 hits on Google for “behavior change.” I suspect that’s more articles, books and handouts that I read in total at the University of Pennsylvania, where I earned my Ph.D. in 1976, and even since then.\n82,300,000 pieces of information on behavior change. Why? Is it really that complex to change your behavior?\nI wrote my Master’s thesis on the psychological aspects of obesity in 1972, and despite the many years of experts telling us how to lose weight and …\n the more than 30,000 gyms in the United States, the more than 50 million people who attend those gyms\n the nearly $23 billion spent in the fitness industry\nthe myriad of DIEt centers\n the $10 billion spent on the self-help market of which $549 million is spent on self-help books\nand the 45 percent of Americans who make New Year’s resolutions (that only 8 percent are successful with)\n the pills\n the surgeries\nand even Dr. Oz ... It’s pretty clear that changing behaviors just related to obesity and overweight, is a long-term process with no easy, successful end in sight. So, back to the 82,300,000 hits on behavior change.\nKnowing where you are on the scale of change, and understanding that it’s a process not an event is an important place to begin. Every step in the right direction increases your chances of real, meaningful change in your behavior, whether it’s in your thinking, eating or moving (ThEaMo). The process of change, it’s been observed, takes place over just five steps.\nNot sure why it took .43 seconds to find 120,000,000 “hits” on Google related to stages of change, bit it did. It isn’t really that complex.\nUntil you’ve moved from one stage to the next, in your own timeframe, in your own way, lasting change is unlikely. Remember, you can’t run someone else’s race, and beating yourself up over “how easy she did it,” or “why can’t I move along as quickly as he did?” only makes it a much rougher ride. You were built to go through change as you need to, not as he or she needs to.\nHere are the five stages:\n1. Precontemplation:\nLet’s face it, you really aren’t interested in working out more, eating healthier, smoking or drinking less or reducing your procrastination. If only  those TV commercials, your friends, doctors and your family would stop bothering you life would be great!  Maybe it’s time to do some self-exploration, not action, but thinking about the risks of not changing. Just keep in mind, it’s totally your decision.\n2. Contemplation:\nYou are reading this, so perhaps you know there is a problem, even though you aren’t intent on doing anything about it. Maybe you are thinking about whether it’s worth making any changes in the way you think, eat or move. It may feel like being on a teeter-totter, so you might want to consider looking at the pros and cons of changing.\n3. Preparation: \nWell, here you are testing the waters, checking out or joining a gym, thinking about eating clean, making lists of healthy foods you are going to buy when you go shopping later today and maybe even joining a group ex class with your friends. You recognize that you have the skills to change your behavior and your are acting on those strengths in small steps.\n4. Action: \nCongratulations! You’ve really changed over the past three to six months. You may not be drinking or smoking and you are attending your fitness center regularly, walking daily, and hitting your healthy eating goals. You’ve tackled some obstacles, and recognized that you’ve successfully put aside negative feelings and replaced them with seeing the longer-term benefits of the changes you’ve made.\n5. Maintenance: \nWhen you’ve been engaged in your new behaviors for at least six months, you’ve reached a level of maintenance where the next goal is to reduce the likelihood of that all too common slip or lapse to an earlier stage. Keep looking for ways to reinforce your changes, watch out for signs of any slipping, and make a list of how you will react if you see any of those almost inevitable lapse indicators.\nThese stages may take a couple of rounds – that’s normal. Remember that Thomas Edison learned 2,000 times how to make a light bulb and Henry Ford learned five or six times how to run a successful company. These weren’t failures, they were learning experiences. Failures don’t define the change process–they set us up  for success.\n\n\n\n\nClick here to buy Dr. Mantell’s book"