"I tend to be a person that likes to “go big or go home” in several areas of my life. For example, when it comes to cleaning the house, I’m not very good at picking things up as I go, however, when I decide that it’s time to clean, I tackle almost every room in the house organizing everything. Recently, I had sort of a light bulb moment when I realized this is often the way I approach exercise. When it comes to fitness, there is a part of me that doesn’t feel like it counts unless I put in a sweaty 60-minute workout. However, on days when I don’t have time to do a “full workout” (which is often), I end up doing nothing. But on those days, do I have 10 minutes to spare? Maybe even 20? Sure, but that isn’t enough time to really make a difference. Or is it? Going against my all-or-nothing mentality, I’ve come up with five easy ways to fit exercise into your day without cutting into other tasks.\nShower Steamer\nWe all have time to shower, yes? I hope so. So why not get your sweat on for 10 minutes before you suds up? You’re already going to clean your body, you may as well get it a little dirty first. Try doing jumping jacks, push-ups, sit-ups or planks. These can all be done in the comfort of your own home. Set the timer for 10 minutes and see how many you can do of each! Your shower will feel so much more refreshing after a quick sweat-sesh anyway.\nRelated: Get More Done in Less Time\nCommercial Shake-Up\nYour favorite show is on tonight? Perfect. You’ll have at least four opportunities during commercials to get a quick heart-pumper in. Try a few kickboxing moves, wall sits, or yoga poses. Whatever you choose, a few exercises will get your body moving and take advantage of the time you would otherwise have spent sitting on the couch. Better yet, try standing or walking around while your show is on. You’re sure to double your calorie-burning that way.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNo More Waiting In Line\nInevitably, we all have to wait in line at some point during the day. Whether you’re checking out at the grocery store, getting food in the cafeteria or waiting for the women’s restroom, take advantage of this downtime and do some calf raises. They’re subtle enough that you won’t cause a scene and hey, if someone notices, they’ll only think you’re brilliant and maybe even join in.\nRelated: 9 Workout Tips For Busy Moms\nGot a Commute?\nTime spent in the car is unavoidable for many of us, which is why a commute is a great time to unwind and focus on your thought life. Rather than tuning into the same old songs, turn the radio off and spend some time in the quiet. Practice gratefulness and positivity in your mind. While these choices aren’t going to get your heart pumping, they can benefit your entire body and lift your spirit from the stress and busyness of life. Remember the old saying, “Where the mind goes, energy flows”? You are in charge of your thought life and training your mind to be grateful and positive makes a difference in all of the choices you make throughout the day. And if you’re driving, you’re also parking. Instead of trying to score the closest parking spot to your work or destination, park as far back as you can. The extra distance will increase your step count for the day and you won’t spend time trying to find the best spot.\nOwn Your Phone\nIn the technological age that we live in, it’s a rare day that we aren’t on the phone. In fact, a study from 2013 found that Americans spend about 15 minutes a day talking on their smartphones alone. This doesn’t include time talking on your office phone at work for conference calls, etc. Imagine if you set a rule for yourself that every time you’re on the phone, you have to move. This could be as simple as walking around or take it one step further and do lunges or squats while chatting.\nSo what do you think? Are your “10-minutes” here and there worth it? By implementing these 5 simple ways to get more exercise and intentionality into your day, you could put in 30 minutes of activity without batting an eyelash. And while the team at GHU recommends fitting in your larger workouts when you can, there’s nothing wrong with some calf raises at the grocery store. Just 15 minutes a day can make a difference in your life—just think, that’s nearly two hours a week you didn’t spend just waiting. Go, you!\nREAD THIS NEXT: How To Take Charge Of Your Time"