"When you buy groceries, do you simply scour the aisles in search of your favorite foods without reading labels? If you do read nutrition labels, what do you look for? Perhaps it’s fat grams, calories, carbs, protein, sugar and sodium. While this information is all important to take note of, there are additional ingredients that are impacting your health as well, including a variety of food ingredients that are actually banned in other countries. Nations have found some ingredients so detrimental to human health that they refuse to allow people to consume them, but the following nine are not yet illegal in the United States.\n\nOlean (Olestra)\n\nWhen watching their weight, many Americans look for products that claim they’re “fat free.” This allows them to indulge in some of their favorite guilty pleasures without the extra calories. The problem with this is that olean isn’t processed by the human body, and can cause diarrhea along with interference of the absorption of essential fat-soluble vitamins like A, D, E and K.\nRelated: 5 Scary Ingredients In Your Food\n\nFarm-Raised Salmon\n\nSalmon is often touted as one of the healthiest sources of protein and omega-3 fatty acids to take advantage of, but it’s important to be mindful which type of salmon you choose. Farm-raised salmon has been banned by Australia and New Zealand because it’s often bred with a disturbing amount of antibiotics. Antibiotic resistance is becoming of increased concern in part because of antibiotic use in our food, so opt for the wild caught variety.\n\nBrominated Vegetable Oil\n\nEurope and Japan have banned drinks that contain BVO, which was originally used by chemical companies as a flame retardant. It can lead to a slew of health problems, from reproductive issues to a depressed nervous system, interrupted endocrine system and behavioral problems in children. U.S. products like Mountain Dew add BVO in order to keep the citrus flavor evenly distributed throughout the beverage.\n\nRactopamine Meat\n\nAlthough it’s been banned in 160 countries, the U.S. FDA still claims this drug is safe for human consumption. Used to reduce fat content to produce leaner meats in pigs, cattle and turkeys, it can cause chromosomal changes, heart disease, hyperactivity and more. The Center for Food Safety (CFS) and Animal Legal Defense Fund (ALDF) even sued the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for withholding records regarding ractopamine’s safety, but nonetheless, many Americans still consume this dangerous drug without even knowing it.\n\nThe Hormone rGBH\n\nUsed to make cows produce more milk, the EU, Canada, Israel, New Zealand and Australia are among the 27 countries who have all banned this dangerous synthetic hormone. It’s produced using molecules and DNA sequences that are the outcome of molecular cloning, which can lead to breast and gastrointestinal cancer.\n\nBHA (Butylated Hydroxyanisole) and BHT (Butylated Hydroxytoluene)\n\nThese waxy substances act as preservatives to keep foods from going bad. But while BHA and BHT have been recognized by the US FDA as safe, they’ve been banned from foods in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Japan and throughout Europe. Both of these substances have been shown to raise cancer risk in animal tests.\n\nAzodicarbonamide\n\nUsed to enhance the texture of soft white breads like hamburger buns, this toxic ingredient has been banned in Australia, the UK and European countries. In Singapore, you can face up to 15 years in prison and close to a $500,000 fine if you add azodicarbonamide to your food, because it can wreak havoc on respiratory health, cause allergic reactions and asthma in people.\n\nBlue Dye No. 1\n\nBanned in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland, this food colorant shows up in a variety of foods in the U.S., like ice cream, cereals, packet soups, icings and more. Also referred to as Brilliant Blue, research has linked it to allergies, hyperactivity, learning problems, aggressiveness and irritability in children.\n\nYellow Dye No. 5\n\nA food colorant banned in Finland and Norway, it’s available widely in the US, despite the fact that six of the 11 studies on it link it to genotoxicity, a deterioration of the cell’s genetic material with the potential to mutate healthy DNA. Also referred to as tartrazine, the artificial dye has also been found to negatively impact markers of disease in organs like the kidneys and liver, both at low and high doses. It’s a common ingredient in cheese-flavored crackers and chips, cereals, macaroni and cheese mixes and more.\n\n\n\n\n\nREAD THIS NEXT: 14 Best Packaged Foods For Clean Eating"