"We’ve all been there: on the verge of something important (a meeting, a speech, an interview) and we get unnerved. Our hearts might race. Our palms get sweaty. And instead of a confident “I’m-excited-to-see-what’s-going-to-happen next”, you feel more fearful, like: “holy-cow-I’m-not-sure-I-can-do-this”. This happened to me recently as I was watching person after person walk in and sit down for a wellness seminar I was delivering at a corporation. My thoughts: I didn’t know this many people were going to be here. Is this seminar even that good? What if I totally forget what to say?! It was in that moment that I realized I was doing this high worry, low confidence thing to myself. The good news about that: I could change it instantly. And so I did. Here’s how to take your mind from worrying to confident in seconds:\nThe Top 4 Ways to Feel More Confident in Seconds\n#1: Take Deep Breaths\nWe hold our breath when we get scared. This compounds the problem because our bodies notice and try to send us the message to breathe more deeply by giving us an uncomfortable feeling. So, the discomfort gets worse.\n“Fear is excitement without the breath” -Robert Heller\nThe next time your worry is high and your confidence is low, take long, deep, fluid breaths and notice the difference.\nRelated: 6 Steps To Melt Away Stress\n#2: Adjust Your Posture\nIt’s hard to feel confident when your body language is screaming, “Don’t look at me, I want to get out of here!” Instead of sending that message to yourself and others, you can use your posture to embody poise and presence.\nHere’s how:\n\nLengthen your spine and pull your belly button up and in like you’re zipping up a snug pair of jeans.\nRoll your shoulders back and down, away from your ears, to open your chest.\nDrop your chin toward your chest, just a bit, to lengthen the back of your neck.\n\n#3: Smile\nI once read an article about a study done with people who were experiencing depression. Was this study focused on anti-depressants? Nope. Exercise? Good guess, but no. The only thing they were looking at was how putting a pencil between a person’s teeth for a certain number of minutes a day affects mood. For real.\nGuess what?! The researchers of the study found out there was a correlation between doing this and an improved emotional state. Why? Simply because putting a pencil between your teeth mimics smiling (in regards to muscle engagement).\nWhen you smile, you send yourself and others the message that all is well.\n#4: Change Your Thoughts\nIt’s impossible to feel confident and peaceful when you’re telling yourself the I’m-a-loser story. Next time you notice that uneasy feeling, think of one thing you know you do really well. Then, think of one thing you’re truly grateful for.\nWith that, worry will lighten, and confidence will bubble to the surface. And others will notice.\nTo your true power, embraced!\nREAD THIS NEXT: 8 Ways To Improve Your Self-Esteem Naturally"