"I’ve always said that looking and feeling your best starts with the food on your plate. What you eat is one of the biggest factors in your overall wellness, and it actually makes a huge difference in how you look. Think about it: when you subsist on sugary pastries and salty snacks, how do you look and feel compared to when you’re eating clean? Nutrients that keep your skin supple, your hair full and shiny, and your nails strong are found in some pretty basic everyday foods. And if you load up on these fruits, veggies, and healthy sources of fat, you’ll look as good as you feel! So let’s explore the best foods to eat for better hair, skin, and nails—and what you can do to give your hair, skin and nails an extra boost in addition to a healthy diet.\n1. Pomegranates\nThis beautiful fruit is considered a hair and scalp superfood for its antioxidant properties and UVA-blocking agents that prevent premature aging of your skin and hair. Pomegranates help strengthen your hair follicles—in fact, pomegranate extract is sometimes used as a natural remedy for hair loss. Pomegranates also contain ellagic acid, which serves as a natural moisture sealant and makes your skin feel softer throughout the day. Add some pomegranates to your cart today or drink pomegranate juice, which has the same benefits.\n2. Carrots\nRich in beta-carotene, carrots promote healthy hair and nail growth. How? All of that beta-carotene turns into the antioxidant vitamin A in the body, which is what your hair, skin, and nails need to stay healthy and vibrant. Veggies like spinach and broccoli are also great sources of Vitamin A, too.\n3. Avocados\n\n\n\n\n\nGood news for all you avocado-toast loyalists; aside from containing healthy fats, avocados contain vitamin C, vitamin E, and antioxidants—the go-to triple threat for better skin. They’re also packed with potassium, which can counteract the bloating effects of salt (which cause puffy eyes or skin) by pushing excess sodium out of the body.\n4. Red Bell Peppers\nBell peppers of all colors are chock-full of nutrients, but red peppers in particular contain mega doses of vitamin C and carotenoids which help increase skin circulation and fight the signs of premature aging. Throw some red peppers in your morning omelette, slice them up and dip them in hummus, or add them to your next stir-fry.\n5. Almonds or Almond Butter\nAlmonds are rich in biotin—your hair’s best friend—and ample amounts of vitamin E, which serves as a natural skin moisturizer and nail strengthener. Almonds are also a great source of calcium, which gives your nails extra nutritional support. Get your almond fix with these 11 addicting recipes for almond lovers you can make at home.\n6. Salmon\nSalmon and tuna are rich in protein, omega-3 fatty acids and vitamin D, all essential nutrients for healthy hair. The special protein in your hair, keratin, is responsible for giving hair its strength and flexibility, so consuming a diet rich in protein will work wonders. Omega-3 fatty acids aid in promoting hair growth and add sheen and luster, too.\n7. Spinach\nPopeye was onto something with all of that spinach—spinach is one of the healthiest things you can eat but also particularly helpful for your skin and nails. It contains vitamin C and beta-carotene, which help protect your skin from the aging affects of UV rays. Add a handful of spinach to your morning smoothie, use it as a base for your salads, or sauté spinach with garlic and a bit of salt for a tasty veggie side to your dinner. \nWhy I Also Take A Hair, Skin, and Nails Supplement \nLike I said, I’m always an advocate of food first over supplements. Get the proper nutrients from your meals as much as you can. However, as I’ve gotten older, I have noticed that when combined with a healthy diet that includes the above foods, taking a Hair Skin and Nails supplement gives me an extra “boost.” Plus, the one I take is actually made with whole food ingredients (i.e. foods, vitamins, and minerals!) that are naturally glow inducing.*\n\n\n\n\n\nIt’s New Chapter’s Perfect Hair Skin & Nails and it contains probiotic-fermented Biotin (which is what promotes healthy skin, hair, and nails and is naturally found in things like salmon, eggs, and avocado) as well as a rare plant-nutrient from organic algae called Astaxanthin. Astaxanthin is clinically proven to reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles.* And—fun fact—it’s what gives salmon that juicy pink color!\nPerfect Hair, Skin & Nails also contains a blend of superfoods and herbs for stress, energy and digestive support—which are major factors that affect the look and health of your skin!* So start with food first, and add in a whole food supplement like New Chapter’s when you can. You’ll be glowing in no time!\nYou can purchase New Chapter’s Perfect Hair, Skin & Nails supplement from Amazon (here) or their website (here).\n\nThis is a sponsored post from New Chapter Vitamins & Supplements, who provided me with a free product for our review. We only partner with brands that align with our mission of health, wellness, and positivity—whose awesome products we think can actually improve your daily life. All opinions are my own.\n\n*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.\nCertified Organic by International Certification Services, Inc., Medina, ND, USA\nREAD THIS NEXT: 8 Inexpensive, All-Natural Beauty Treatments"