"Push-ups are one of the most important exercises you can do, but they’re difficult for many people. So, how many push-ups can you do?\nIs your answer zero? Be honest. You have to know your starting point so you can brag about how many you can do a month from now.\nYou really can do more push-ups than you think you can do and I’m here to help you. You can get stronger. It just takes practice and a plan.\nI know some of you think the idea of being able to do 50 push-ups seems as likely as spotting a UFO, but it’s not as hard as you think.\nIf you are new to push-ups, I will give you a quick progression to build up your strength. If you are already proficient in your push up regimen check out my other blog on push-up variations.\nWhy You Should Do Push-Ups\nPush-ups are one of the best bodyweight exercises you can do; they require zero equipment, build strength in all of the right places, have many variations to keep things fresh, and are easy to modify and track progress.\nYou can burn calories working multiple muscle groups and shape your body at the same time. Push-ups make you strong.\n\nHow To Do a Push-Up\nWhen it comes to push-ups, your form is crucial. Each push-up needs to be a full range of motion. If you only go half way down or push your butt up in the air for several reps, you shouldn’t count them. Sounds harsh? Well, cheating never gets you ahead. Here’s how to get set up to do a push-up:\n\nSet your hands slightly wider than shoulder-width apart, hands facing forward.\nSet your feet directly behind you at a comfortable position (together or slightly separated). The further apart your feet are, the more stable you will be until you are able to build your balance up enough to put your feet together.\nStraighten your body from the top of your head down through your heels. Your butt should stay in line with your legs and back, never up in the air. Your abs engaged and your shoulders over your wrists. (Basically a full body plank position.) Keep your neck neutral, don’t drop your head or crank it back.\nLower your body with your glutes and abs contracted until your chest touches or comes close to the ground. Let your elbows naturally bend slightly back and keep from scrunching your shoulders into your neck. Push yourself back into the starting position. Try to keep your core body steady. Don’t sag through the low back or push your butt way up in the air.\n\nCongratulations, that is a proper push-up!\nDo as many as you can until you start to feel your form slip. Only count good form and STOP when your form begins to cave.\nWrite down how many you did and aim for 1 or 2 more the next time. Keep track of your improvement from day to day and week to week.\nWork your way up to 50 in a day. Why? Because it makes you strong and it’s a fun goal to set. You can do 5 sets of 10 with a few seconds of rest in between each set, but good form is a MUST!\nPush-Up Modifications\nOKAY … but if you are saying: I need to start a little slower than that … here is your progression to work up to a full push up.\nWall Push Ups\n\nSet your hands on a wall at a width that’s wider than shoulder-width apart.\nWalk backwards with your feet away from the wall until your arms are fully extended and you are leaning into the wall.\nKeeping the rest of your body in a straight line, steadily lower yourself towards the wall until your nose almost touches the wall, and push back up to the starting position.\n\nAdd a few repetitions each day for a week or two. Once you are up to 50 in a row with good form, move to the elevated push-up.\nElevated Push Ups\n\nPlace your hands onto a sturdy table, chair or bench. If you start out with something as tall as a kitchen table, keep decreasing the incline every few days moving down to a chair or a step.\nFollowing the regular push-up form (full body plank on an inclined surface) do as many in a row as you can with good form.\n\nPractice for a week or two adding a few reps each time. Once you can do 30-50 of these, progress to the modified push-up.\nModified Push-Up\n\nBegin with hands on the floor, wrists below your shoulders, glutes and abs engaged, knees on floor.\nDo a full range of motion with your chest coming down to the floor and then push back up.\n\nAgain, add a few every day and once you are up to doing at least 30-50 in a day, you are ready to attempt the full push-up on your toes!\nAlright, try these tips and let me know how you are doing with your push-ups a month from now. Remember – YES YOU CAN!\n\nREAD THIS NEXT: 15 Push-Up Variations You’re Going To Want To Try"