"Tell me if this sounds familiar: you’re constantly fatigued, feel like you’re dragging, and even minor stressors leave you majorly overwhelmed. You depend on caffeinated beverages, sodas, and salty foods to get you through the day and maintain a stable mood or energy level. And at the end of the day, no matter how tired you’ve been, you find yourself with a “second wind” of energy around 11 pm that keeps you up at night. If this description fits, you may be part of 80% of the population who experience adrenal fatigue at some point in their life.\nWhat Is Adrenal Fatigue & What Causes It?\nYour adrenals are two glands that sit on top of your kidneys. They help regulate nearly every hormone in your body, one of which is cortisol, the stress hormone. When you undergo a period of heightened stress, your adrenals can potentially become too overwhelmed to properly regulate your hormones, including cortisol. This causes what is known as adrenal fatigue.\nThe Mayo Clinic reports that chronic, long-term stress is the most likely cause of adrenal fatigue. Other potential causes of adrenal fatigue may include:\n\nChronic stress – the most likely cause\nSurgery, trauma, or injury\nChronic inflammation, infection, illness or pain\nOverwork, including physical or mental strain\nLong-term sleep deprivation\n\nRelated: Balance These 4 Hormones If You Want To Lose Weight\n\n\n\n\n\nWhat Are the Symptoms of Adrenal Fatigue?\nWhen your body isn’t properly regulating stress, you’ll notice it. Common symptoms of adrenal fatigue include:\n\nChronic fatigue, feeling tired all day but you get a “second wind” around 11 pm\nShakiness or elevated heart rate as an overactive response to minor stressors\nFrequent insomnia\nReduced libido\nDifficulty losing weight, especially around your abdomen\nExcessive thirst\nChronic pain or body aches\nConstant cravings of salty foods\nHair loss\nMuscle weakness\nSuppressed immune system, noticing you get sick more often\n\nNote: Some people don’t medically recognize adrenal fatigue, but they do recognize adrenal insufficiency, or Addison’s Disease. Addison’s Disease is a long-term endocrine disorder where your adrenals don’t produce enough hormones. Some medical professionals view adrenal fatigue as a milder, more temporary form of Addison’s Disease.\nAdrenal insufficiency can be diagnosed with something called an ACTH stimulation test, which measures changes in cortisol levels in the blood. If you suspect adrenal fatigue and not true Addison’s disease, one option is to ask for a cortisol test to identify if your body’s level of this hormone are normal. But more importantly, you can also be your own best advocate. You can start by identifying your symptoms. If you’re experiencing multiple symptoms listed above, you can start to treat your adrenal fatigue naturally.\n7 Steps To Healing Adrenal Fatigue Naturally\n\n\n\n\n\nIt takes time to wear out your adrenal glands, and because of this, it also takes time to heal them. It can take six to nine months to heal from minor adrenal fatigue, and up to 24 months for more severe adrenal fatigue. Recovering from adrenal fatigue includes taking stock of your physical and mental well-being and making significant lifestyle changes that reduce stimulus from stressful situations.\nHere are seven natural ways to begin your journey recovering from adrenal fatigue:\n1. Go on a caffeine detox\nEliminate all caffeine from your diet until your adrenals are normal. We know this might not be easy, but this will help reset your cortisol levels.\n2. Revamp your diet\nEliminate any foods that you have sensitivities to, particularly excess sugar from your diet. Eating too much sugar creates blood sugar spikes that cause the adrenals to work harder.\nInstead of sugar, processed foods, eat lots of brightly colored vegetables, lean clean protein, and whole grains. Also be sure to eat regular meals so your blood sugar doesn’t dip too low. No more skipping breakfast!\n3. Create a regular, early bedtime\nGo to bed early, before you get a second cortisol surge after 11 pm. Aim to get to bed at 10 pm or before. Practicing “proper sleep hygiene” is an idea that’s become increasingly important in our fast-paced world, and part of that means keeping a regular bedtime so you train your body to sleep better.\n4. Meditate\nAim to manage stress in a more proactive way. Instead of waiting until something upsets you to try and calm down in the moment, begin every day with a 10-minute meditation. This will regulate your breathing, calm your mind and body, and help you better manage any stress that comes your way before it overwhelms your adrenals.\n5. Try Himalayan sea salt\nAdrenal fatigue affects a hormone called aldosterone, which is partly responsible for regulating salt in the body. Because of this, consuming more natural salts like Himalayan sea salt, which are full of trace minerals that support your adrenal function, can actually help heal your adrenals.\n6. Avoid Over-Exercising \nToo much cardio or excessive exercise is hard on the adrenals. If you’re suffering from adrenal fatigue, consider switching to a more moderate exercise routine, including de-stressing practices like gentle yoga or walking.\nTip: Exercising outside in the sun can provide added benefits like boosting your levels of vitamin D. The benefits of vitamin D include the repair and maintenance of every cell, as well as serving multiple gene-regulatory functions in your body. Scientists have found over 3,000 genes which are regulated by vitamin D. Nearly every single cell in your body contains receptors which respond to Vitamin D. You get the picture: this vitamin is important.\n7. Try Adaptogenic Herbs\nAdaptogens are herbs that help your body deal with stress better. Consider taking an herb that supports adrenal health, like ashwagandha or rhodiola.\nIf you suspect you have adrenal fatigue, give some of these natural treatments a try and be your own advocate with your doctor. If anything, adrenal fatigue shows us that how we take care of both our bodies and our minds can have major consequences on our health. Use our seven tips to reset your adrenals and heal from adrenal fatigue naturally!\n\nREAD THIS NEXT: 7 Supplements Women Over 50 Should Take"