"Tell me: What outdoor spring workouts do you love? We recently asked our Facebook community this question, and we received lots of responses. You may not be surprised to discover that walking, hiking, jogging, biking and gardening are springtime favorites, but apparently we have a whole bunch of paddle board and kayaking fans too. (I love paddle boarding!) Just thinking about being outside and doing all of these fun activities gets me jazzed. Cause let’s face it: many of us had brutal winters and getting back to nature inspires the mind and the body.\nOur team here at GHU compiled your SPRING WORKOUT IDEAS into a list.  Maybe some are familiar to you or maybe some are new – our goal is to inspire you to take your fitness to the fresh air! After all, spring is all about renewal, so it’s the perfect season to try something new!\n\n\n\n\nOutdoor Spring Workouts You Can Do\nBenefits of Mixing Things Up\nPrevent boredom. Trying a new exercise can keep you interested. If you get bored with a workout, you are less likely to do it. The more you love an exercise, the better your chances you will do it!\nGet unstuck. Surprising your body can get you off a weight loss plateau. Shake it up and shake it off. If you already have a springtime exercise you love, you don’t have to give it up, just add something new to your exercise regimen to surprise your body and work different muscle groups. Surprising your body can help you lose weight (if that’s your goal) and make you stronger.\nExpand your exercise menu. Hopefully you find about a half dozen types of exercise that you love from our Spring Workouts list. When you have lots of options you enjoy, your workouts can be fun. Plus, your body benefits from all the variety. Speaking of variety, we have more than 300 exercises you can do outdoors in our Exercise Library.\nLove your arms. You can muscle up for tank top or sleeveless dress weather. Enjoy how your shoulders and arms look as you tone those muscles in an outdoor fitness class or by playing softball. Your hard work and sweat turns into a sparkling you when you are out and about.\nLove your legs. All of those uphill hikes and long bike rides will give you those muscle-hard legs you’ve always wanted. Don’t forget, you can still do squats and lunges outside too.\nGet friends and family involved. Why not share the springtime love and share the list with friends and family to have a super active season together? The accountability and the social time of exercising with people you love can keep you motivated to stay active this spring.\nDid your favorite outdoor spring workout make the list? If not, let us know what you love to do in the comments below. We’d love to hear what gets you moving outside when the weather gets nice!\nNeed more ideas of exercises you can do outside? Check out our Exercise Library! \nREAD THIS NEXT: Burn Calories This Spring Without Working Out"