"How are you going to make sure your skin stays radiant this summer? My friends at BULU BOX compiled the dos and don’ts of what to do this summer to keep your skin looking it’s best all summer long.\nSunscreen\nDon’t choose any sunscreen that is below SPF 15 and does not offer broad spectrum protection. Anything lower than this does nothing to shield you from harmful UVA rays.\nDon’t use expired sunscreen. After the expiration date, you’re not going to receive the full SPF that’s promised on the label.\nDo give sunscreen time to absorb into the skin. Slather on 1-2 oz. (equivalent to 1-2 shot glasses full) of your lotion about 20 minutes before you head out into the sunshine.\nDon’t forget to reapply sunscreen every two hours. Sunscreen loses its effectiveness after about 2 hours in the sun and water, so make sure to carry extra with you if you plan on being outside for a long period of time.\nDon’t forget about your lips! Pucker up and apply a lip balm or chap stick with SPF 15 or greater to protect and moisturize the delicate skin on your lips.\nDo continue taking antioxidants to help protect your skin from free radicals that can damage your skin’s DNA. BioVi is full of antioxidants and probiotics that keep you looking and feeling healthy inside and out.\nDiet\nDo continue to eat a healthy diet. Consuming foods that are rich in vitamins, antioxidants and omega-3 fatty acids will help keep your skin radiant. Stock up on berries, dark leafy greens and a variety of veggies to fuel your skin.\nDo remember to take NeoCell brand collagen and hyaluronic acid every day. NeoCell products build beautiful skin from the inside out.\n1. Collagen, that strengthens your skin, hair and nails.\n2. Hyaluronic Acid, that hydrates the skin and is known as Nature’s Moisturizer.\n3. Vitamin C, essential to boosting collagen in the skin.\n*(I have to add a personal note here because these two products changed my life a year ago. I could not solve my skin issues and thought I had rosacea. After trying every topical treatment a light bulb went on and I realized maybe I needed to solve the problem from the inside out. I started taking NeoCell brand collagen and hyaluronic acid and my skin cleared up overnight. I have told every friend of mine to buy these products!)\nAccessories\nDo avoid the sun during the hours of 10-4 when UV rays are more intense. If you must go out and be in the sun at these hours, try to find shady areas or be sure to sport a wide brimmed hat to avoid those harsh rays.\nDo slip on some sunglasses with 100% UVA/UVB protection. Squinting in the sun for long periods of time is not only bad for your eyes, but can lead to wrinkles around the eyes as well.\nDon’t forget to moisturize your skin when you’re out of the sun. Nothing is worse than dry, peeling skin so be sure to keep your skin hydrated when you’re out of the suns rays. Best practice is to apply lotion right after you shower to seal the moisture into your skin.\nYour Turn: How are you going to protect your skin this summer? Tell me in the comments section below!\nREAD THIS NEXT: Is There Such A Thing As A Healthy Tan?"