"Do home workouts work? The answer is yes! Working out at home is one of the best ways to exercise on your own time—and turf! But what if you feel like you don’t have enough space, or distractions pile up like that laundry waiting to be folded (or little ones asking for something every minute)? And let’s not forget the biggest excuse in the books: lack of motivation! Whatever’s holding you back from working out at home, we want to break down that barrier for you. Why? Because a workout should be fun, convenient, and a no-brainer. And at-home workouts can be all of those things! Working out at home is also a great way to save money on gym fees, save time that would have been spent commuting to the gym, and focus on your own progress instead of competing with the person next to you. You can burn mega calories and build muscle, all in the comfort of your own home. So follow along as we deliver some game-changing ways that make it easier than ever to workout at home. Here are seven hacks to make sure your home workouts work for you and to make sure you never have to ask “do home workouts work?” again!\n1. Have a Plan\nInstead of just wandering aimlessly into your workout space and doing random exercises, decide ahead of time what your goal is and what workouts will help you get there. Are you trying to lose weight? Tone up? Gain flexibility? Decide what you want and plan which workouts you’ll do for the week, or even the month, to achieve your goal. Need some help planning out your workout schedule? Follow along with one of our awesome 28-Day Calendars at Get Healthy U TV that tell you exactly what workouts to do each day to achieve specific results—from weight loss to strength training—so you’ll never go into your workout wondering what to do again.\n2. Set Up Healthy Rewards\nOnce you have your plan in place, set up healthy rewards for checking those workouts off your list! Maybe it’s a new pair of shoes after you complete a month’s worth of your planned workouts, or taking a luxurious bubble bath with epsom salts (known to help ease muscle tension) after your workout. It could even be getting to watch your favorite TV show with a glass of red wine at night if you got your workout done that day. Motivating yourself to workout at home is easier when you give yourself little rewards to look forward to.\n3. Step Out of Your Comfort Zone\n\n\n\n\n\nIt can be intimidating to try new classes or push yourself when you’re at a crowded gym; but stepping out of your comfort zone is easier when you’re in the comfort of your own home! At home, you can do any workout you want, free from wandering eyes or long lines for a machine. And thanks to technology, there’s an endless array of class styles at your fingertips online. (We have all of them on Get Healthy U TV!) If you’ve been too nervous to try a dance workout with a big group, you can follow along to an online dance workout when you’re in the privacy of your own home! If you’ve been too intimidated to try yoga, give an online yoga routine a whirl. Looking to seriously sweat? Try a HIIT workout! Push yourself further than you thought possible, without a trip to the gym.\n4. Schedule Your Workouts Like Appointments\nJust because you’re working out at home doesn’t mean you get to blow off a workout when you don’t feel like it. Schedule your workouts like appointments you can’t miss. Write them in your planner, set a reminder, and set yourself up for success. Pick a time when you will be free from distractions and can focus solely on your fitness. For many people, that time is early morning, before anyone else is awake! While a calorie burned at 7 am is the same as one burned at 7 pm, morning workouts are often easier “appointments” to keep with yourself because you can get them done before anything else gets in the way. Lay out everything you need the night before, like your workout clothes, a water bottle, and a snack. Stay accountable to yourself and show up for each workout with determination.\nRelated: 7 Tricks To Become an Early Morning Exerciser\n5. Designate Your Own Space\nContrary to popular belief, you don’t need an entire room dedicated to fitness in order to workout at home—you just need a little space where you can move and no one will bother you. If that means working out in your TV room and moving your coffee table before each workout, do it the night before so when you rise and shine you walk into an open space that’s been set aside just for you. Play motivating music, hang inspirational quotes or phrases in your space, and lay down a workout mat. Do whatever you need to get in the zone. Claim the space as yours for the next 30 minutes to hour, and enjoy being alone with just you and your workout!\n6. Get Equipped; But Know Bodyweight Works Just As Well\nThere has been much debate over what works better: exercising with weights or your own bodyweight. Here’s the truth: bodyweight exercise works just as well as weighted exercise with dumbbells or equipment, and it costs NOTHING! Of course, there’s nothing wrong with mixing it up, so if you want to, go ahead and get a few items like a stability ball, resistance bands, and dumbbells. But if you don’t want to spend money on that, don’t worry! You can use your own bodyweight just as well. Here are some of our favorite bodyweight-only workouts:\n20-Minute No-Gym Workout\n\n\n\n\n\nUltimate Upper-Body HIIT Workout\n\n\n\n\n\n15-Minute Flat Ab Workout\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 30-Minute Anywhere Bodyweight Workout \n\n\n\n\n\nComing Down The Ladder \n\n\n\n\n\n7. Give Yourself A Proper Warm Up and Cool Down\nOften we workout longer at the gym because we feel like we’ve put in all this work to pack a bag, drive there, and change our clothes—so we want to get the most out of it. We warm up, workout, then cool down and stretch. Don’t change that routine just because you’re at home! Skipping your warm-up or cool-down will limit your results (and can sometimes cause injury). Make your workout indulgent. Do a nice warm up to get your heart pumping, then do your workout and cool-down with some stretching. Reward yourself with one of your rewards from #2, like a smoothie or epsom salt bath afterwards. Take the time to treat your body right with your workouts and you’ll enjoy them even more!\nREAD THIS NEXT: A Low Impact, High-Results Workout To Do At Home"