"The slow cooker is my absolute favorite kitchen appliance. The simple set-it-and-forget-it capability makes meals come together in a flash and has been liberating women from hectic dinner hours for decades. The technology has been around since the 1940’s but the excitement began in the 70’s when the brand “Crock Pot” debuted in the marketplace, allowing working women and housewives some extra time to actually workout with Jane Fonda (my favorite) or sneak in a hair appointment to freshen up the perm (LOL). We’ve come a long way, baby, but the slow cooker is still a staple in millions of American’s kitchens.  You can make all kinds of healthy meals in your slow cooker and we’ve got 11 easy and tasty slow cooker recipes for you right here. No more stressful grocery store visits on the way home from work or standing in front of the stove for hours on end; the slow cooker wants to cook healthy, delicious meals for you! 
  Related: 5 Ways To Get More Done In Less Time
  First let’s get a few things straight: Crock-Pots heat from both the bottom and sides, and slow cookers heat from just the bottom. Crock-Pots typically have a low, high, and warm setting vs. most slow cookers that have a range of 5 heat settings. Remember slow cookers come in all shapes and sizes. Most slow cookers now have a removable crock so it is much easier to wash, some have timers, and many even stir as they cook! My rule of thumb with any of these recipes is if my device settings don’t match the one used in the recipe, I go slow and low. I also always brown any large cuts of meat before adding them to my slow cooker. From breakfast to buffalo wings, the slow cooker guarantees you a few extra hours of time and a delicious meal, does it get better than that? These are some of my favorite no-fuss healthy and delicious recipes, so get cookin’!
  Slow Cooker Salsa Verde Chicken Chickpea Chili by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  Skip the take-out and enjoy a healthier meal at home with this tasty slow cooker recipe for General Tso’s chicken that is sweet, sticky and a little spicy. You can easily make this dish paleo and gluten-free so everyone can enjoy the tasty goodness of this meal.
  Crock Pot Chicken Salsa Tacos  by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  Try these four ingredient crock pot chicken salsa tacos for an easy, gluten-free recipe that tastes like you have been slaving over it all day. Make your own fiesta by topping with some fresh guacamole and salsa for a crowd pleasing meal.
  Crock Pot Chicken and Dumplings by LaaLoosh
  
  Chicken and dumplings is the ultimate comfort food. This stress-free simple recipe is filled with a hearty chicken gravy, tender chicken, and fluffy dumplings just like mom used to make. This healthy recipe is only eight weight watcher points and 321 calories per serving.
  Slow Cooker Butternut Squash, Bean, and Barley Stew by Slender Kitchen
  
  Spice up a chilly evening with this delicious vegan recipe for butternut squash, bean, and barley stew. This dish is full of protein, fiber and a sweet spicy flavor that you will love!
  Slow Braised Beef with Carrot Mash  by Heartbeet Kitchen
  
  This slow braised beef with carrot mash and olives is the modernized version of your grandma’s pot roast and man, it’s a welcome upgrade. The roast is packed with flavors from the garlic, leeks, thyme and olives, and the carrot mash makes the perfect healthy side.
  Slow Cooker Quinoa Energy Bar Recipe by Food Faith Fitness
  
  This simple slow cooker recipe for quinoa energy bars is a snap to throw together, and the slow cooker does all the work! This tasty gluten-free recipe has 6 grams of protein and 4.3 grams of fiber per serving making it a delicious and healthy post-workout snack or healthy breakfast and is kid approved.
  Crock Pot Hawaiian Chicken by Slender Kitchen
  
  We love this tender crock pot Hawaiian chicken because it is so versatile! It is super yummy on a bed of Asian slaw, in a sandwich, or on a salad!
  Slow Cooker BBQ Pork Sandwiches by Get Healthy U
  
  This is the easiest recipe of all time! The tender pulled pork literally falls apart and makes amazing BBQ pulled pork sandwiches that are perfect to feed a crowd.
  Slow Cooker Smokey White Bean Chili by The Picky Eater Blog
  
  This delicious vegetarian chili recipe takes a bit of extra prep work, but it’s worth the effort! This healthy chili has a very rich flavor. This recipe makes a ton, so share with a friend, or freeze for another day.
  Slow Cooker Beef Stew by Simply Nourished
  
  If you have a busy week, this is the recipe for you! This tasty slow cooker beef stew takes 10 minutes to prep, and you come home to a complete gluten-free meal the whole family will love! Plus, this rich and tasty slow cooker beef stew recipe is brimming with veggies and protein!
  Slow Cooker Curry Chicken by The Everyday Maven
  
  Spice up dinner with this slow cooker chicken curry recipe! An amazing Indian meal that is low-fat and full of delicious curry flavor, Try this health dish with a side of spiced coconut rice or rice noodles.
  Hopefully these healthy dishes will make your life easier and allow you to do something for yourself like hit a yoga class, get a pedicure or maybe enjoy a glass of wine while your slow cooker takes care of dinner! Check out more time saving healthy meals here.
  
  Read This Next: 14 Meals in a Muffin Tin"