"If you’re looking for recipes for detoxing your body, you don’t have to fall victim to the latest cleanses, fasts, and terrible concoctions that starve you for days (ahem, looking at you, cayenne pepper water).
  The truth is, your body already comes with several built-in detoxification systems—your colon, liver, kidneys, lungs, and skin to name a few—and they work to naturally eliminate toxins and keep things functioning properly every day.
  Luckily, there are ways to help your body do what it does best by aiding the natural detoxification processes already taking place—specifically with what you put in your mouth.
  Certain foods act as a catalyst for the detoxification process and help your body to work at its highest potential. Below is a list of some of the best foods and recipes to naturally detoxify your body (without starving it!).
  Pro tip: Drink a full glass of room temperature water in the morning spritzed with lemon juice to hydrate your body and kickstart all your body’s systems!
  The Best Foods For Natural Detoxing
  
  Turmeric
  Broccoli
  Artichoke
  Lemon
  Lentils
  Sweet Potatoes
  Kale
  Ginger
  Grapefruit
  Beets
  Garlic
  Cabbage
  Apples
  Cilantro
  Green Tea
  Tomatoes
  Beans
  Nuts
  Arugula
  Pineapple
  Radishes
  Watercress
  Carrots
  Onion
  
  Want to save this list? Pin the below image for easy reference!
  
  Foods to cleanse your body
  Related: How To Realistically Lose 10 Pounds In a Month
  The Best Recipes For Natural Detoxing
  These recipes for detoxing your body combine a lot of the foods above for a super healthy way to assist your body with its natural detoxification process.Detox Vegetable Soup
  
  
  
  Full of good-for-you ingredients that nourish your soul and replenish your body, this detox vegetable soup is one of the most popular recipes on our website, and for good reason. It’s the perfect dinner for a cold winter’s night and will fill your home with delicious aromas as it simmers.Kale Rainbow Detox Salad by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  
  
  Kale is one of the healthiest foods on the planet which makes it a great base for this delicious and healthy salad. This recipe is also loaded with all sorts of veggies including colorful bell peppers and carrots which have wonderful health benefits including beta-carotene and vitamin C. Plus, it’s topped with simple but delicious vinaigrette that brings everything together.Salmon Sweet Potato Avocado Kale Salad by Slender Kitchen
  
  
  
  With so many delicious ingredients in this salad, you’ll forget you’re eating healthy!
  The salmon and avocado bring good-for-you, satiating fats while the sweet potato, kale, apple, cucumber and tomato give your body an extra boost of nutrients.Roasted Red Pepper Quinoa Chili by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  
  
  Try a different spin on chili with this roasted red pepper and quinoa version. This vegetarian recipe takes less than an hour to make and is packed with protein and fiber.Beet, Arugula & Quinoa Salad with Citrus Dressing by Get Healthy U
  
  
  
  Beets are one of the best detoxifying foods and this salad is filled with good-for-you ingredients while still tasting delicious!
  Let this salad be your go-to when you’ve been indulging in a few too many Christmas cookies.Tropical Detox Smoothie Bowl by Get Healthy U
  
  
  
  Smoothies are a great way to start your morning and the pineapple base of this smoothie means it’s a great way to detox too!
  Plus, you can make this smoothie bowl year round using fresh or frozen fruit!Cleansing Green Radish Soup by Heavenlynn Healthy
  
  
  
  A few too many cocktails this weekend? This Cleansing Green Radish Soup is the perfect clean recipe you need to get your body back in shape.
  Dairy-free, gluten-free, and packed with veggies, it’s a great meal to make for the family or to take in you lunches all week!Carrot Apple Ginger Zinger by Get Healthy U
  
  
  
  Sometimes after eating too much unhealthy food, the only thing you want to put in your body is juice! Our Carrot Apple Ginger Zinger is the perfect shot of nutrients to your system to help detoxify without loading you up with more calories.Watercress, Beetroot, Avocado & Lentil Salad by Heavenlynn Healthy
  
  
  
  Protein, fiber and healthy fats – what more could you want?!
  This salad is an amazing source of vitamins and minerals, has great fresh flavor and crunch as well as avocado, beets and pecans all topped with a dijon maple dressing. Yum!Crockpot Chicken Tortilla Soup with Kale by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  
  
  Soups are a winter staple, but they’re also a great way to load up on the veggies and hydrate your body.
  This chicken tortilla soup is made in the crockpot with delicious Mexican flavors and a healthy potion of kale.Kale, Edamame and Quinoa Salad with Lemon Vinaigrette by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  
  
  This unique fruit and veggie combo salad combine kale, edamame, mango, grape tomatoes, avocado, quinoa, and red onion for a filling and healthy meal any time of day. Your body will truly thank you!Skinny Vegetable Medley Soup by Get Healthy U
  
  
  
  Despite the name, this vegetable medley soup doesn’t taste like a “diet” recipe; this healthy dish is so delicious and so filling you won’t believe it has under 200 calories and is packed with 11 grams of protein per serving.
  It’s LOADED with veggies and totally customizable so you can add in your favorite veggies or take out ones you don’t love.Green Goddess Tuna Quinoa Salad by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  
  
  We love Green Goddess dressing! And in this salad, it’s the perfect compliment to the quinoa, tuna, and fresh spring veggies!
  It’s easy to prepare ahead and bring to a gathering or to have for an easy side dish (or main!) during the week.
  Recipes to Cleanse Your Body – Which Is Your Go-To?
  These recipes to cleanse your body will have you feeling refreshed and ready to kick your health into high gear! Which was your favorite?
  
  READ THIS NEXT: Reset Your Body After An Indulgent Weekend With These 5 Tips"