"Jumping rope can bring back memories of childhood and hanging out on the playground. But jumping rope is also a great cardio exercise for adults. It’s inexpensive compared to a bike or a treadmill. And it helps to improve your heart health, shed calories, and improve coordination all at the same time.  
  If you’re a beginner, we’ve got everything you need to know in this article from what jump rope to use to a great beginner jump rope workout. And if you’re a bit more skilled with the jump rope and ready for more, make sure to try out 15-minute jump rope HIIT workout below.
  So grab your jump rope and jump in! 
  Use the links below to quickly navigate this article:
  
  Best Jump Rope For Beginners
  Benefits of Jumping Rope
  How Long Should I Jump Rope?
  How To Adjust Your Jump Rope Length
  Beginner Jump Rope Workout
  15-Minute Jump Rope HIIT WorkoutBest Jump Rope For Beginners
  When it comes to using a jump rope for your workouts, your basic jump rope will do. The great news here is that you don’t need anything fancy! And while some fitness equipment can be a little spendy, a jump rope is a very economical option.  We love this jump rope from SPRI but you can likely even find one at your local Target. Just make sure to adjust to the proper length (see instructions below!).
  
  Benefits of Jumping Rope
  
  1. Improves Heart Health
  Jumping rope is a great cardio exercise. The longer you go, the more you’ll rev that heart rate and jumping rope for cardio is fun too!
  2. Can Aid Weight Loss 
  Jumping rope is a great way to burn calories. In fact, compared to jogging, jumping rope actually burns more calories! Which means that you can absolutely jump rope for weight loss.
  3. Improves Coordination
  Because you’re using your legs and arms at the same time, jumping rope requires synchronicity of movement between different body parts. By practicing this and jumping rope regularly, it will improve your balance, agility and coordination.
  4. Reduces Injury
  Jumping rope can actually reduce the likelihood of injury, particularly when it comes to foot and ankle injuries. The repetitious jumping movement creates a lightness on your feet and agility that can translate into reduced injury in other activities.
  5. Portability
  Since a jump rope is small, lightweight and can be folded into a small loop, it’s a very portable piece of fitness equipment. Pack it in your suitcase for a great workout while away, keep one in your gym bag, or even your purse!
  
  How Long Should I Jump Rope?
  How often you jump rope depends on your fitness level and personality. 
  If you are already used to higher impact exercise and a high level of fitness, you may want to add a jump rope session 3-4 times a week. Even a 10-minute session will push your heart rate up quickly.  
  If you are a beginner when it comes to jumping rope, you may want to start with 1 or 2 sessions a week and begin with 30 seconds of jumping followed by 30 seconds of rest. Just go for 3-5 minutes. Slowly start working toward jumping a full minute followed by 30 seconds rest. Work your way up to a full 2 minutes.
  
  How To Adjust Your Jump Rope Length
  
  Stand on the midpoint of your rope. Place both of your feet on the midpoint of the rope (just a few inches apart). 
  Pull the rope taut on both sides.
  Measure where the handles reach to your armpits. 
  Adjust the length of your rope accordingly.
  Trim the excess wire or knot it depending on your rope.
  
  The Workouts
  
  Try one or both of our jump rope workouts below. Whether you’re a beginner or ready for a little something more, we’ve got two great options that will get your heart rate up and burn some serious calories! The first is for beginners looking for something a little simpler, and the second is a jump rope HIIT workout involving some strength work if you’re looking to up the ante.
  
  Beginner Jump Rope Workout
  What you’ll need: A jump rope adjusted to the correct height. 
  Start off with a basic jump step. Either skip over the rope or only one two-footed bounce per rotation of the jump rope. When you are learning to jump rope, you may miss a few jumps. If so, just start again, that is expected. Just do your best to keep moving and pay attention to your heart rate. As this workout gets easier the more you do it, try to increase your tempo as you go! 
  20 seconds of jumping followed by 30 seconds of rest
  20 seconds of jumping followed by 30 seconds of rest
  30 seconds of jumping followed by 30 seconds of rest
  30 seconds of jumping followed by 30 seconds of rest
  45 seconds of jumping  followed by 30 seconds of rest
  
  15-Minute Jump Rope HIIT Workout
  What you’ll need: A jump rope adjusted to the correct height. 
  Directions:  This jump rope HIIT workout is a high-intensity interval-style workout that alternates between cardio jump roping and bodyweight strength training moves.  You’ll do 1 minute of jumping rope followed by 1 minute of strength training moves. Go hard on the “work” and use your 30 seconds “rest” to recover. This workout will take approximately 15 minutes. (If you need extra recovery time, feel free to take it.) 
  The Moves:
  Interval 1: 
  Jump rope 1 minute /  rest 30 seconds 
  Basic squats 1 minute / rest 30 seconds (see full instructions below)
  Repeat 
  Interval 2:  
  Jump rope 1 minute /  rest 30 seconds 
  Pushup T 1 minute / rest 30 seconds (see full instructions below)
  Repeat
  Interval 3:  
  Jump rope 1 minute /  rest 30 seconds 
  Alternating forward lunges 1 minute /  rest 30 seconds (see full instructions below)
  Repeat
  Interval 4:  
  Jump rope 1 minute / rest 30 seconds 
  Plank to single arm reach 1 minute / rest 30 seconds (see full instructions below)
  Repeat
  Interval 5:  
  Jump rope 1 minute / rest 30 seconds 
  Full sit-ups  1 minute / rest 30 seconds (see full instructions below)
  Repeat
  How To Do a Basic Squat:
  
  
  Stand tall with your feet hip distance apart. Your hips, knees, and toes should all be facing forward.
  Bend your knees and extend your buttocks backward as if you are going to sit back into a chair. Make sure that you keep your knees behind your toes and your weight in your heels.
  Rise back up and repeat.
  
  How To Do a Push-Up T:
  
  
  Begin in a plank position with hands below shoulders, legs long and abdominals tight so your body is in a straight line.
  Bend elbows,  lowering chest to the ground, keeping gaze in front of fingertips.
  Press chest back to start position and open right hand and hip to the ceiling so you end up in a side plank position. Feet stay staggered and legs long.
  Rotate right hand back to start position and repeat exercise, this time opening the left hand into side plank. This is one repetition.
  
  How To Do Alternating Forward Lunges:
  
  
  Stand tall with your feet hip distance apart.
  Take a large step forward and lower your body toward the floor.  Both legs should be bent at a 90-degree angle at the bottom of the lunge. Push off front leg to rise back up to start, and repeat on the other side.
  
  How To Do A Plank To Single Arm Reach:
  
  
  Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists and your body in a straight line.
  Raise your right arm and hold keeping abs tight. Repeat on the other side.
  
  How To Do A Full Sit-Up:
  
  
  Start with knees bent and feet on the mat. Arms are crossed and resting on the chest.
  Bring chin to chest and flex, the head, neck, and torso off the mat coming to a seated position then return back down with control.
  
  Now stretch out, get some water and move on with your day! Great job!
  READ THIS NEXT: 7 Best Cardio Workouts For Weight Loss"