"If you’re looking for low to no-carb lunch ideas to bring to work, these 16 sandwich substitution recipes are perfect for you.
  Going breadless is now a trend, in large part to people’s search for Atkins lunch ideas but also because people discovered that there are so many other options to sub for bread. Some people see many benefits to putting bread on the backburner.
  Whole-grain and refined flour, as well as gluten, can sometimes upset the digestive system and irritate the gut. We adore bread and always will, but once in awhile it is rewarding to mix it up with these cleaver renditions of the sandwich.
  
  1) Sweet Potato Turkey Burger Sliders
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: SweetTreatsMore.com
  Using sweet potatoes to substitute for a bun? Genius. Less carbs and loaded with nutrients like vitamin D, vitamin B6, and iron, sweet potatoes simply rock! Talk about a whole lot more wholesome than a hamburger bun!
  2) Perfect Egg Salad
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: AHealthyLifeForMe.com
  Get a protein boost without the added calories of bread. Use romaine or collard greens to wrap up your egg salad for a quick recipe that you can refrigerate and eat daily!
  Related: 12 Grocery List Must-Haves
  3) Avocado Latkes Grilled Cheese
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: Brit.Co
  A recipe that you probably have never heard of before, these Avocado Latkes Grilled Cheese are heavenly. Not completely fried in butter like a regular grilled cheese, these are guilt-free and something you need to make as soon as possible.
  4) Cabbage Breakfast Burrito with Sweet Potato Noodles
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: Inspiralized.com
  Cabbage savoy leaves are one of the best foods you can put into your body. These greens can lower cholesterol and are cancer-preventive, so incorporating these into your breakfasts with this wrap is vital for your diet.
  5) Protein Style Ahi Tuna Sandwich
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: SpoonForkBacon.com
  One of the leading omega-3 power packed foods, tuna is a great lunch additive. This wrap is free from all the grains and will give you the energy and strength to conquer your day.
  6) Paleo Ham and Cucumber Rollup
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: Paleoholic.com
  Ideal for appetizers or sides at your next get together, these roll-ups are addicting. Cucumbers contain little to no calories and are completely unprocessed.
  7) Portabella and Halloumi “Burgers”
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: MushroomInfo.com
  Another genius substitute for bread. Use grilled Portabella Mushrooms to hold your burger in place! Mushrooms assist in digestion, rather than upset it like some grains do. This sandwich looks and tastes so appetizing.
  8) Cranberry Chicken Salad Lettuce Roll
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: CravingSomethingHealthy.com
  Spice up your classic chicken salad with this recipe. Lettuce wraps are so fresh, and adding them into cranberries gives your sandwich some added antioxidants.
  9) Red Pepper Apple Tuna Sandwich
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: Inspiralized.com
  Red peppers are a delicious substitute for your next sandwich! You may be used to seeing red pepper inside a sandwich, but now make it the star of your plate. This sandwich is colorful, and by using tuna, you are giving your body a high dosage of omega-3 fatty acids. (A tomato cut in half horizontally would work too!)
  10) Mushroom and Quinoa Lettuce Wraps
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: LoveandLemons.com
  Another wrap, another day. This Mushroom and Quinoa Lettuce Wrap is low-calorie, high in protein,and will fill you up in all the right ways.
  Related: How To Eat More Alkaline Foods
  11) Collard Wraps with Carrot Hummus
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: LoveAndLemons.com
  This vegetarian wrap is perfect for someone who wants to go breadless and meatless. The creamy spread is a carrot hummus which is tasty in itself! Chickpeas attend to weight loss needs, lower cholesterol, and are a healthy addition to any diet.
  12) Tofu Sandwich
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: JustBento.com
  If you are a tofu fan, you need to make this for your next meal. Tofu is naturally gluten-free, so if you have a sensitivity, this sandwich is first-class. It will also contain an ideal amount of protein with the tofu and whatever meat you decide to incorporate into the “sandwich.”
  13) Thai Stuffed Avocados
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: EatLiveRun.com
  More and more, we are seeing an avocado being used as a shell for tasty cuisine. This Thai Stuffed Avocado is unbelievable, and something that you will want to experiment with and make for everyone you know!
  14) Cauliflower BLTS
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: TheIronYou.com
  We have all heard or used cauliflowers for a flour substitute to make pizza crust, but how about to make bagels? Bagel sandwiches are everybody’s guilty pleasure, so remove the calories with this recipe. You will be hooked on cauliflower after this!
  15) Chicken Avocado and Mango Rolls
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: EveryLastBite.com
  A summer recipe that all will fall in love with, these rolls incorporate some of the healthiest foods for your body. Chicken for lean protein, mangos for an essential B vitamin, and avocados for every vitamin and mineral you could think of. These are a great no gluten appetizer option!
  16) Raw Vegetable Nori Wraps with Sunflower Seeds 
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GormandeintheKitchen.com
  Do not be intimidated by this, it is not difficult to make! It is crunchy, full-flavored, and seaweed is key to getting enough fiber and protein into your daily diet.
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 13 Recipes To Fuel Your Sriracha Addiction"