"Hands down, the most searched item on any fitness website is “how to get rid of belly fat” or any iteration of that phrase you can conjure up. So don’t worry, you aren’t the only one with this concern!
  Unfortunately, most of the quick-fix answers given to this problem are, at best, less than straight-forward and, at worst, all-out lies. With titles like: “7 Moves to Reduce your Tummy in 7 Days” or “Reduce Belly Fat Quickly!” it’s no wonder people remain frustrated and waistlines continue to expand.
  So if it’s a quick fix for belly fat you were hoping for, you can stop reading now. If it’s real, long-lasting change you want, then join our 28-Day Belly Fat Blast virtual fitness challenge!
  
  What’s the Deal with Losing Belly Fat?
  First, let’s get one thing straight: there are no quick fixes to get rid of belly fat. Like any other typical “problem area,” the only way to really get rid of belly fat is to burn fat all over your body.
  You cannot burn fat in one part of your body and not the others! Burning off that stubborn belly fat will come as a side effect of combining a healthy, consistent workout routine with healthy eating! But, why do you want to blast that belly fat?
  It’s frustrating. You think you have so many healthy habits, and yet it won’t go away. You’ve tried workout classes, your limit your calories, you’ve tried a juice cleanse and a weight loss supplement, but haven’t seen big results. Hey, we get it! It’s frustrating when you don’t get instant gratification. But, trust us! Weight loss takes time and consistency, and that’s why we designed this challenge: for YOU!
  It’s unattractive. Stomach fat has a pesky way of making us feel unattractive or uncomfortable in our clothes. First, we want to emphasize that your body is beautiful and deserves love and respect, no matter if you’re a size 2 or 22.
  Don’t punish your body by aggressively overworking it or limiting calories and starving it. To feel truly beautiful begins on the inside, and by exercising and eating right, you can meet your physical goals as well! Summer is right around the corner, and if getting tighter abs are what is standing between you and self confidence, then this challenge is here to help!
  It’s surprising. You know the feeling: all of a sudden, you go to throw on a pair of jeans and they’re quite a bit more snug than you remember them being. Somewhere, somehow, seemingly out of nowhere, your midsection has expanded without you noticing.
  Trust us, you are NOT alone! We’ve all been there. Don’t let that unpleasant, and often discouraging, surprise get you down! Instead, get to work! Take the next 28 days to battle against that bulge and fit back into those jeans!
  Lose Belly Fat and Improve Your Health
  It’s unhealthy. Perhaps the most important thing to know about the fat around your middle is that it is the most dangerous fat to have. So many of us focus on looking good in a bikini or in those upcoming wedding photos, but a good thing to always remember is that having too much body fat really is unhealthy.
  For men and women alike, the fat around the middle – or the “apple shape” – indicates a deeper layer of fat. This visceral fat not only weighs you down on the outside, but it surrounds your internal organs putting you at risk for much bigger problems than a larger pant size. According to the Mayo Clinic, belly fat increases your risk of:
  
  Cardiovascular disease
  Type 2 diabetes
  Colorectal cancer
  Sleep apnea
  
  In addition to that, Robert Eckel M.D., President of the American Heart Association, adds two more to that list:
  
  High blood pressure
  Stroke
  
  Belly fat is no laughing matter. Still, fitting into a smaller size and feeling better about the way you look continues to be a driving force for change. The “why” you want to change is just as important as “how” you will change. So, how do you lose belly fat?
  Like any other healthy goal, you will need to focus on the basics in a consistent way. This includes strengthening muscle, getting your cardio exercise to burn extra fat and, of course, healthy eating! That’s why we’re so excited to present you with this 28-day challenge that we designed with you AND your goals in mind.
  Related: 9 Tips + Workout to Get Rid of Lower Belly Fat
  Strength Training
  In order to burn more fat, you have to have more muscle. Simple as that. It’s just science, my friends! A stronger body is a leaner body, whether it’s arms, shoulders, or abs. The Harvard School of Public Health states that, “Engaging in resistance training [strength training] or, ideally, combining it with aerobic exercise could help older adults lessen abdominal fat while increasing or preserving muscle mass.”
  Cardiovascular Exercise
  Ab exercises alone will not burn belly fat. That kind of spot reducing is a myth! Like we said before, you cannot spot reduce.
  Rather, you need to focus on total body fitness and fat burning. In order to help eliminate the layer of fat that is covering your beautiful abs, you will need to get your cardio fix in at least 3-4 days a week.
  Related: 9 Ways To Get Rid of Menopausal Belly Fat
  All things considered, the trifecta listed above is your main ticket to burn belly fat!
  A publication by Harvard Medical School states: “For now, experts stress that lifestyle, especially exercise, is the very best way to fight visceral fat.” All-over strength training matters, and yes, abdominal exercises are important too. Strengthening your core and building the muscle in your belly remains an important piece of the belly fat puzzle.
  The 28-Day Virtual Fitness Challenge
  
  To get this party started, we’ve set up a FREE 28-Day Belly Fat Blast Challenge for you to tackle–and guess what? N0 crunches involved.
  Why crunchless you ask? It’s not that we’re hating on crunches entirely, but there are more effective exercises to do, and we want to get you out of the rut of thinking that crunches are the only way to a toned belly.
  Just follow the chart below and by the end of 28 days, you will be well on your way to a tighter mid-section and a healthier you.
  Please remember as we stated above, we are not trying to fool you into believing that it’s as easy as these few moves to lose weight. You need to do cardio and strength consistently, and you need to eat clean. So, we’ve included an extra workout on the chart.
  Try to complete at least 30 minutes of cardio and/or strength at least four days a week in addition to these core exercises and remember to drink water and eat clean! We love HIIT workouts because they combine cardio and strength into the same sweat session.
  Also, keep an eye on your inbox for even more tips and advice on how to blast the belly fat this month!
  
  Here are five ab exercises you’ll be doing for our Challenge. Click to get the description and pictures!
  Alternating Oblique Burners*
  Reverse Curls
  Double Leg Drops
  Alternating Russian Twists*
  Forearm Plank Hold
  *Alternate means right side then left and the count on the chart is for the total number of reps.
  READ THIS NEXT: 28-Day Push-Up Challenge"