"Finding time to fit in a workout can be difficult, but it doesn’t have to be. You only need 30 minutes and your own bodyweight for this Total Body Tone Up, and it acts as a multi-tasker by taking care of both strength and cardio at the same time. You can perform it anywhere, at anytime, with no equipment needed. By combining strength exercises to build muscle with short bursts of cardio to get your heart pumping, you’ll simultaneously burn more calories and boost your metabolism. If that sounds like something you’re interested in, then read on.
  Here’s how it works: Perform each exercise below for 12 repetitions, then immediately go into a high knee run in place for 60 seconds. Need low impact? Instead of the high knee run, do a fast high knee march, pumping your arms to make up for the heart rate. Once you finish your 60-second blast, take 15 seconds to catch your breath and move on to the next move followed by another 60-second high knee run. Keep this going throughout the workout, and repeat the entire sequence two times, making for a 30-minute workout. Try to get this workout in 2-3 times a week and you’ll be feeling great in no time! The best part is there is NO EQUIPMENT NEEDED! Just you, your shoes and a little space.
  Leg Blaster 
  
  This kick-thru lunge will get your legs in shape in no time! Make sure to do 12 and then switch feet and do 12 more.
  A) Stand tall with your feet hip distance apart. Take a large step backward with the right foot and lower your body toward the floor. Both legs should be bent at a 90-degree angle at the bottom of the lunge.
  B) Straighten your left leg and kick your right foot forward to hip height or higher if possible. Repeat for desired number of reps then switch legs.
  High Knee Run or March Fast in Place – 60 Seconds
  Pretty Arm Push-Ups
  
  This push-up punch move will shape up your arms, chest, shoulders and core. Try doing 12 – 6 punches per arm.
  A) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists, your feet together, and your body in a straight line.
  B) Keeping your body straight, bend your arms to lower your body toward the floor.
  C) Straighten your arms to push your body back up into plank position as you punch your right arm forward. Return your hand to the floor, lower back to the bottom of your push-up and repeat punching with left arm.
  High Knee Run Or March Fast In Place – 60 seconds
  Booty Lifter
  
  These side lunges will help lift your rear end and tone your legs.
  A) Start standing with legs slightly wider than shoulder distance apart and toes pointed forward.
  B) Shift your body weight to one leg bending the knee until it reaches a 90-degree angle and the other leg is straight. Glutes are pressing back behind you. Return to center and switch sides.
  High Knee Run or March Fast In Place – 60 seconds
  Related: 20-Minute Total Body Medicine Ball Workout
  Tank Top Triceps 
  
  Firm up any arm jiggle and tone up your arms with these tricep dips.
  A) Start seated with knees bent and feet on the floor. Place hands behind you, directly under the shoulders, with finger facing your hips. Lift hips to a hover.
  B) Bend elbow straight back and use your triceps to press back up.
  High Knee Run or March Fast in Place – 60 seconds
  Thigh Tightener
  
  These plies are bound to make you notice your inner thighs tomorrow morning!
  A) Stand with feet slightly wider than shoulder distance apart, toes turned out, and lift your heels into releve.
  B) Bend at the knees lowering torso, keeping your back straight, and abs tight. Squeeze glutes and straighten legs to return to starting position.
  High Knee Run or March Fast in Place – 60 seconds
  Beautiful Back and Shoulders 
  
  Dolphin dives are great for the core, but you will notice how your upper back and shoulder blade areas will be strong and engaged.
  A) Begin with your forearms on the floor with your arms and feet shoulder-width apart and your hips raised so that your body forms an inverted V.
  B) Dive forward, coming to a forearm plank. Keep abs tight and back from sagging. To finish the push-up, reverse the dive, raising your hips back up to start position.
  High Knee Run or March Fast in Place – 60 Seconds
  Belly Blaster
  
  This sweeping scissors move will stretch and lengthen your torso and pull your core in nice and tight.
  A) Start lying on the mat with arms over your head and legs long.
  B) Sweep arms out to sides and bring head, neck, and shoulders off the mat reaching arms long and lift one leg up and in towards the chest.  Reaching arms forward on the sides of the leg. Roll back to mat lowering the leg, and repeat on the other side.
  High Knee Run or March Fast in Place – 60 Seconds
  Take a quick drink and go back to the top and start again!
  Did you like this workout? #PinForLater!
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 8 Exercises You Should Be Doing (But Probably Aren’t)"