"Tabata. HIIT. Fartlek. To some, these words look like a foreign language. To those paying attention to fitness, these are the latest buzzwords that seem to have staying power, and they all refer to intervals! Many things in fitness come and go, but interval training is here to stay. Why? Because it’s one of the best ways to burn fat and lose weight.
  What Is Interval Training?
  Interval training is a type of workout where you alternate between high intensity (anaerobic) and lower intensity (aerobic) exercise. The amount of time spent in the intervals varies, but the goal of each anaerobic interval is to work hard enough to be breathless so that you don’t just want a break, you need it. The benefit of interval training is that it shortens your workout time while giving you better results. (HIIT and Tabata are both forms of interval training, and a “fartlek” refers to interval training in running where you alternate between intervals of a fast and slower pace. Pull that one out at your next dinner party….)
  How Does Interval Training Help You Lose Weight?
  If weight loss is your goal, you have to vary your workouts. Steady state workouts like walking, jogging, or cycling, are fantastic—but if you want to lose weight you’ll have to incorporate intervals. By pushing yourself to go as hard as you can for specific amounts of time, you end up working harder, not longer, which saves you tons of time. But not only that, studies show that interval training helps you burn more calories even after you’re done working out than you would after a steady-state cardio workout. This affect is called”afterburn” and it’s critical for weight loss. You want your metabolism to be revved up long after you’re done working out, not just during the workout itself.
  Related: Why HIIT Is Good For Burning Fat 
  10-Minute Interval Workout
  So are you ready to get your heart pumping and burn some fat with this intense interval routine? All you’ll need is your own bodyweight! Here’s how it works:
  
  Jog lightly for one minute to warm up.Do the first exercise shown as hard as you can for 30 seconds, followed by a 15 second rest.Repeat this pattern for each exercise until you have done it 3 times total. Then move to the next exercise.This workout ends up being a little over 10 minutes. If you’re feeling ambitious today (woo!), repeat the entire thing one more time for a 20-minure routine! Don’t forget to stretch it out and drink a lot of water at the end.
  
  High Knees
  A) Start standing with feet hip distance apart.
  B) Lift up one knee as high as it will go and raise the opposite arm, then switch quickly. Continue alternating arms and legs.
  Run as hard as you can for 30 seconds. Rest for 15 seconds. Repeat the interval for a total of 3 times.
  Lateral Shuffle
  A) Start standing with feet hip distance apart and sink into a deep knee bend. Bring both hands in front of the chest in guard position.
  B) Shuffle both feet out laterally to the sides and bring them back in quickly. Stay low and keep feet moving quickly to work the inner and outer thigh muscles.
  Shuffle 4 fast steps right, 4 fast steps left. Repeat as quickly as you can for 30 seconds. Rest 15 seconds. Repeat the interval for a total of 3 times.
  
  Power Skips
  A) Start standing with feet hip distance apart.
  B) Lift up one knee as high as it will go and raise the opposite arm. Jump straight up and switch sides forming a skip. Continue alternating arms and legs.
  Skip high and hard for 30 seconds. Rest for 15 seconds. Repeat the interval for a total of 3 times.
  Burpees
  
  A) Start in a plank position with arms and legs long, hands shoulder distance apart.
  B) Walk or jump both feet between your hands coming into a low squat. Jump straight up as high as possible, land, and come back to your plank position.
  Burpee for 30 seconds. Rest for 15 seconds. Repeat the interval for a total of 3 times.
  
  Globe Hops
  
   
  A) Start standing with feet a few inches apart and arms in guard position at the chest.
  B) Quickly jump front, back, side to side completing a circle or globe shape then repeat.
  Perform hops for 30 seconds. Rest for 15 seconds.  Repeat the interval for a total of 3 times.
  
  READ THIS NEXT: The Beginner’s Guide to HIIT"