"Here at Team Get Healthy U, we’re no strangers to the occasionally harried Monday morning; you’re running late, you spill coffee on your (new!) white shirt, and nothing seems to go right. If that sounds familiar, we’re here to share a few tips we’ve learned on how to get organized so things go smoothly even on the most hectic days. And while we can’t failsafe every day of your week against the unexpected hiccup, we can offer a few suggestions to get you more prepared to tackle the week like a rockstar. So whether you’re a type A, list-making machine or a roll-out-of-bed at the last minute kind of person, here are five ways to have the best week ever—coffee spills sold separately.
  1. Plan Meals Ahead of Time
  
  Nothing brings on stress like last-minute meal creation. The daily dinner dilemma can get overwhelming, but if you plan a week’s worth of meals ahead of time you’ll feel way more on top of things and less prone to blow money and calories on takeout by Tuesday. In the winter, we love to plan slow-cooker meals so we can set it and forget it, coming home to a warm dinner at the end of a long day. It also helps to organize your grocery list by sections so you don’t have to run back and forth between aisles; tackle your dairy, produce, and freezer goods separately so you spend less time at the store and more time cooking and eating your delicious meals. (Speaking of the freezer, we’re also huge fans of freeze-ahead meals we can make in advance so dinner prep is a breeze the rest of the week!)
  2. Set A Weekly Intention
  
  On a Sunday night, the weight of the approaching week’s tasks can start to set in. But instead of letting that Sunday-night stress creep in, use that time to set an intention for the coming days. How do you want to feel in the week ahead? Stressed, impatient, angry? Chances are, you’d greatly prefer feeling grounded, patient, and grateful. So what are you going to do to feel that way? Make a list of at least two or three actionable ways you can return to your intended feelings this week. Then, set an alarm on your phone each day to remind you of your intention. It sounds cliché, but taking a moment once a day to breathe deeply and think of how you really want to feel might just have the power to transform your whole day.
  Related: 7 Ways To Get Happier
  3. Block Off Uninterrupted Time For Mundane Tasks
  
  Do you ever have those days where it takes you an hour (or more!) simply to go through your emails because you’re trying to do three other things at the same time? We’ve been there. If you block out specific amounts of time to conquer the tasks you’re dreading, you’ll be more productive for the rest of the day. For example, take a few items on your to-do list (let’s say scheduling doctors appointments, making a grocery list, and answering your emails) and give yourself the 7 am to 8 am hour to tackle those three roadblocks to your productivity. Handling those nagging to-do’s in one solid chunk of time will help you feel more accomplished than if you scatter them throughout the day amidst work that feels more pressing. Get those time-suckers out of the way!
  4. Book Your Workouts Like They’re Appointments
  
  Yep, you heard us. Write ‘em down! Studies show writing down your goals or tasks makes you more likely to accomplish them. We know it can be hard to block off time for yourself, but making your fitness and health a priority will ultimately make you feel more balanced and ready to tackle the other things on your weekly to-do list. Taking “me time” is not selfish; schedule your workouts like you would doctor appointments—they’re just as important for your health!
  
  
  
  
  Schedule your workouts like doctor appointments; they're just as important for your health!
  
  
  
  Click to Tweet
  5. Keep Track Of The Good
  
  No matter how busy or frantic your week gets, there is always room to stop and appreciate the good things that are going on. Maybe you’re tired and stressed and have a sink full of dirty dishes, but it’s because you made a meal for people you love or stayed up late laughing with friends. Keeping a gratitude journal or simply stopping to appreciate everything that’s going right in your life instead of small annoyances can make any day, week, or year your best one yet. As Brené Brown says, “you can’t have joy without gratitude!” Joy is a by-product of gratitude, and to have your happiest week, start by appreciating what you have.
  READ THIS NEXT: 5 Ways To Get More Done In Less Time"