"You’ve probably heard about a few things you can do with baking soda other than actually baking with it—after all, most everyone witnessed the baking soda and vinegar volcano in middle school science. However, many would be surprised to find out just how many uses there are for this wonderful white powder. From cleaning to beauty to medicinal, here are 56 uses for baking soda:
  Cleaning:
  
  
  Kitchen scrub: You can replace your current household cleaner with a solution of baking soda and water.
  Carpet cleaner: You’ll be amazed how easy it is to get stains out of your carpet with baking soda. Let it sit on carpets overnight and vacuum the next day.
  Pots and pans cleaner: Even the nastiest pots and pans will be clean if you let them soak in baking soda for 15-20 minutes.
  Antibacterial fruit scrub: A little bit of baking soda mixed with water is a great way to clean fresh fruit and vegetables.
  Silverware cleaner: Let your silverware soak in a paste that is three parts baking soda and one part water for 15-20 minutes and all the dirt will wash away with the mixture.
  Dishwasher helper: Add a little bit of baking soda to your regular dish washing cycle. This will help cut through grease.
  Microwave cleaner: A teaspoon of baking soda spread out on a damp rag will cut right through the grease on your microwave.
  Drain cleaner: Don’t use nasty chemicals to clean your drains. Use a mixture of baking soda and water instead!
  Shower curtain cleaner: Want to get rid of the nasty stains on your shower curtain? Rub some baking soda into the stains and add a little bit of water to wash away the grime.
  Wash your car: Don’t buy expensive cleaning products that claim to be specially made for cars. There’s no need! All you need is baking soda and water. Just make sure the baking soda dissolves completely.
  Sponge freshener: Give new life to your stale sponges by soaking them in a mixture of 4 tablespoons baking soda and 1 quart water.
  Clean the oven: Spread baking soda along the bottom of the oven and spray with enough water to make it damp. In the morning, you’ll be able to easily scoop out the grime as the baking soda will have absorbed it.
  Clean furniture: You can even remove crayon marks with baking soda!
  Clean batteries: As an alkaline substance, baking soda can be used to clean battery acid stains on cars and equipment. Make sure you disconnect the battery before you start cleaning.
  Care for your septic system: Regularly using baking soda to clean drains will help keep the entire septic system running smoothly.
  Camping cleanser: Baking soda is essential to camping as you can use it to clean anything and everything that’s with you.
  Clean floors: Dissolve a little bit of baking soda into a bucket of water and you’ve got a great floor cleaning solution.
  Clean stove tops/burners: Next time you do dishes, sprinkle some baking soda onto your stove and spray it with water until it’s damp. When you’re done you’ll be able to wipe the mixture off your stove easily.
  Clean coffee and teapots: A strong baking soda solution can remove even the most stubborn coffee/tea stains.
  Soak oral appliances: Oral appliances such as retainers and dentures can be cleaned by soaking them in a mixture of baking soda and water.
  Toilet cleaner: Let a cup of baking soda soak in your toilet for an hour and rinse it through to remove odors and stains.
  Refresh your tea towels: Get even the most stubborn stains and smells out of your tea towels using a mixture of baking soda and water.
  
  Beauty & Body:
  
  
  Brushing your teeth: Mix some baking soda into your existing toothpaste or mix a little bit of baking soda with a lot of water (pure baking soda will actually damage your enamel over time) and you’ve created the ultimate tooth cleanser. Baking soda is great for keeping bacteria away.
  Tooth whitener: If you’re tired of seeing those coffee stains every time you smile, mix a pinch of baking soda with water, adding water until the solution becomes a thick paste. Rub this onto your teeth and let it sit for five minutes before you rinse it out. Do this once a week and you’ll notice your smile getting gradually brighter.
  Exfoliating: Tired of trying one expensive brand of face wash after another and seeing hardly any results? Mix baking soda and water in a bowl and use the mixture to exfoliate.
  Hand softener: Have some leftover baking soda mixture after washing your face? Use this to scrub your hands clean and you’ll be surprised how soft they are when you’re done.
  Foot bath: Create your own luxurious foot bath by dropping a tablespoon of baking soda into some warm water. This will clean your feet and help them relax. It’s also far better for removing odors than many specialty foot washes, which simply use another scent to cover stinky feet.
  Hair cleanser: Adding a teaspoon of baking soda to your regular shampoo is a great way to remove excess oils and dirt from your hair.
  Brush and comb cleaner: Cleaning your brush and comb regularly is essential to maintaining good hair health, but you don’t want to use just any cleaning product. Combine two teaspoons of baking soda with one cup of water to create the perfect cleaning solution for your brush and comb.
  Soften your cuticles: You can make your cuticles softer by soaking them in a mixture of baking soda and water or brushing the mixture directly onto the nails.
  
  Related: How To Make Your Mani-Pedi Last Longer
  Medicinal/Pain Relief:
  
  
  Sunburn relief: Been out in the sun too long? Take a warm bath and dump in half a cup of baking soda. Mixing it into your lotion can also help reduce pain caused by sunburns.
  Bug bite relief: Create a thick paste using a tablespoon of baking soda and some water. Then rub it on the affected area to get instant relief from the itchiness of bug bites.
  Splinter removal: It sounds crazy, but it works: if you soak your hand (or wherever you got the splinter) in a bowl of water with a little bit of baking soda every day for about a week splinters will remove themselves naturally.
  Heartburn relief: Baking soda neutralizes stomach acid, which is why it’s actually used in some stomach medications like Tums. Add half a teaspoon of baking soda to two cups (500ML) of water.
  Improve kidney performance: Baking soda buffers existing acid in the body and helps keep your pH level balanced so your kidney functions properly.
  Reduce ulcer pain: The ability to neutralize stomach acid makes baking soda one of the best ways to reduce pain caused by ulcers.
  Healing sore throats: Gargling a mixture of baking soda and water is a great way to kill bacteria and get pain relief.
  Cure canker sores: You can get rid of canker sores by using a baking soda solution the same way you use mouthwash.
  
  Odor Remover:
  
  
  Deodorant: Baking soda naturally removes odors from your skin and it’s particularly effective as a deodorant. You want to create a mixture with a milky substance and wipe that under your arms or even your feet.
  Shoe deodorizer: Put a little bit of baking soda in the bottom of your shoes to get rid of any lingering odors.
  Kitty litter deodorizer: You can dramatically reduce the stink and increase the lifespan of your kitty litter by shaking a couple tablespoons of baking soda into the box every 3-5 weeks (more if you have multiple cats).
  Closet freshener: Your closet will never smell funky again if you place an open box or cup of baking soda inside.
  Refresh sports gear: The hockey bag doesn’t have to be the smelliest thing in your house—a solution of 4 tablespoons baking soda and 1 quart water will make it smell fresh again.
  Keep fridges fresh: You can keep your fridge smelling fresh by placing a small open bowl of baking soda in the back.
  
  Related: Should You Switch To All-Natural Deodorant?
  For Kids/Baby:
  
  
  Deodorize lunch boxes: Put a spill-proof box of baking soda in the kids’ lunch boxes between uses to prevent smell.
  Clean baby bottles: Sterilizing baby bottles is important, but so is being careful about what touches those bottles. Use a solution of baking soda and water next time.
  Refresh stuffed animals: Keep stuffed animals clean and fresh by letting them sit in baking soda for 15-20 minutes once every month.
  Baby clothes detergent: A single cup of baking soda in the laundry acts as both soap and fabric softener.
  
  Other:
  
  
  Exercise enhancement: Baking soda absorbs the lactic acid that builds up in muscles when you’re working out. This can improve your performance and delay fatigue. The best way to get this effect is to put a teaspoon of baking soda in a glass of water.
  Fire extinguisher: This obviously won’t work for big fires, but baking soda can easily put out a small grease fire.
  Metal polish: Baking soda solutions can polish steel and chrome as well as silver.
  Tomato sweetener: Sprinkle some baking soda onto the soil around your tomato plants when they’re young to make them grow sweeter.
  Substitute for baking powder: Mix baking soda with citric acid, lemon, buttermilk or vinegar to use it as a substitute for baking powder.
  Plant protector: Keep rabbits away from your vegetables by sprinkling baking soda on flowerbeds.
  Paintbrush saver: Hardened paintbrushes can be made soft again if boiled in a solution of 2 liters water, ¼ cup vinegar and 1 cup baking soda.
  Make omelettes: Make the fluffiest omelettes you’ll ever eat by adding half a teaspoon of baking soda per 3 eggs.
  
   READ THIS NEXT: 5 Kitchen Items You Probably Aren’t Cleaning"