"Do you suffer from leg cramps, fatigue, migraines, sleep issues, anxiety, or high blood pressure? If you have one or more of these symptoms you could be one of many Americans that are deficient in magnesium! Responsible for, “regulating muscle and nerve function, blood sugar levels, and blood pressure and making protein, bone, and DNA,” you can see why you don’t want to run low on this valuable mineral. Luckily there are many ways you can increase your magnesium intake from supplements to magnesium-rich foods. Here is what you need to know!
  
  The National Institute Of Health recommends for adults males 19 and older 400 mg of magnesium daily, and 310 mg for females (350 mg for pregnant females) 19 and older. Up to 500 mg may be suggested for athletes or those working out vigorously each day. But unfortunately, the only true way to test for magnesium deficiency is to do laboratory testing that evaluates your magnesium serum levels by urine, saliva or tissue. Unless you have a history of kidney issues, doctors will often times suggest a supplement that you can take daily. And while these supplements have little risk of side effects for most people, there are many healthy foods rich in magnesium that you can easily add to your diet. These 8 power foods (and delicious recipes!) below are packed with the magnesium your body needs to flourish!
  
  Click here to get your printable chart of magnesium-rich foods!
  1. Dark Leafy Greens
  (1 cup spinach =156 mg)
  Dark leafy greens like spinach and kale are brimming with vitamins and minerals! This delicious Green Energy Smoothie has more than half the magnesium you need in a day, and I promise, it tastes like a creamy tropical milk shake. This healthy smoothie will soon become your favorite post-workout snack.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: Team Get Healthy U
  2. Beans
  (1 cup cooked = 120 mg)
  This EASY Black Bean Hummus recipe makes a quick and tasty gluten-free appetizer. I serve this hummus with assorted fresh veggies to keep snacking low-cal, low-carb and loaded with flavor!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: GlutenFreeJess.com
  3. Quinoa
  (1 cup cooked = 118 mg)
  This healthy Chocolate Chip Quinoa Cookie recipe is a double whammy because quinoa has tons of magnesium and for a double dose, choose dark chocolate chips vs. semi-sweet chocolate. Dark chocolate chips (70% cacao or more) have 176 mg of magnesium in 3.5 ounces. So grab a cookie for dessert!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: ChocolateCoveredKatie.com
  4. Cashews
  (1/4 cup = 116 mg)
  This healthy Broccoli Salad with Cashew Curry Dressing  has the best of both worlds with broccoli, cashews and sunflower seeds, it’s packed with magnesium and anti-inflammatory ingredients that will fuel your body all day long. Pumpkin seeds are another amazing source of magnesium 1 cup of pumpkin seeds has 42% of of the magnesium your body needs daily, and makes for a tasty snack!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: FoodFaithFitness.com
  5. Fish
  (4 ounces of salmon = 138 mg)
  This sweet and spicy Honey-Lime Sriracha Salmon with Sesame Cucumber Noodles is loaded with protein, delicious Asian flavors and topped with crunchy sesame seeds for an additional dose of magnesium. Salmon is truly a power food filled with protein, Omega 3’s and anti-aging nutrients.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: AmbitiousKitchen.com
  6. Oatmeal
  (1 cup cooked = 61 mg)
  I love this healthy Apple Cinnamon Baked Oatmeal with Macadamia Nut Crunch. I top it off with a little almond milk and it is the perfect breakfast. This healthy meal or snack is a great source of magnesium, and filled with protein and fiber too! I especially love this recipe because you can make it ahead of time and have breakfast ready to go for early, busy mornings.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT Team Get Healthy U
  7. Broccoli
  (1/2 cup cooked = 51 mg)
  One of my favorite food makeovers is this lighter Broccoli Cheese Soup recipe that uses almond milk and white cheddar cheese to create a creamy bowl of goodness loaded with nutrition.
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: FitFoodieFinds.com
  8. Bananas
  (1 med size banana = 33 mg)
  Bananas are incredibly nutritious! Just 1 banana has 8% of the potassium and 12% of the magnesium you need daily. I personally love bananas on the go first thing in the morning because they are easy to eat, and have a nice balance of natural sugar and carbs to give you energy! If you suffer from cramping, the magnesium and potassium in bananas can help. This decadent Coconut Banana Pudding is perfect for a healthy breakfast or dessert, and kids love this recipe!
  
  PHOTO CREDIT: LaaLoosh.com
  Looking for a magnesium supplement? Check out my recommendations for the best vitamins women should take over 50, including magnesium!
  READ THIS NEXT: Do Bananas Make You Fat?"