"This post is from our friends at Slender Kitchen.
  Let’s be honest, while we all have the best intentions when it comes to cooking up healthy meals, many times life just gets in the way. Between busy work days, afterschool activities, running errands, cleaning up, and hopefully squeezing in some exercise, it’s hard to find the time to shop, plan, and cook a healthy meal. So we end up reaching for take–out, processed food, or the same boring chicken breast we have eaten ten times in the past two weeks.
  So this week, instead of making meals a last–minute afterthought, you need a plan. A healthy meal plan that will not only make dinnertime easy and stress–free, but will help you reach your weight loss and healthy living goals.
  To get you started, make these two healthy breakfast recipes on Sunday and then enjoy them all week long, alternating every morning so you don’t get bored. Then plan to make these quick and easy dinners during the week. Plan on cooking up a little extra so you have leftovers for lunches—using them in big healthy salads, wraps, tacos, or grain bowls. And if you really want to get ahead, cut and prep your veggies and cook your grains on Sunday for even faster weekday cooking.
  That’s all it takes! One simple meal plan for a week of delicious and healthy eating. So go get cooking and eat well all week.Asparagus and Mushroom Quinoa Frittatas served with fresh fruitOvernight Brownie Batter OatmealSlow Cooker Sweet and Spicy Chicken Thighs with brown rice and your favorite veggieBalsamic Chicken with Mushrooms and Thyme with quinoa (leftover from the frittatas)Thai Basil Ground Beef BowlBlackened Salmon with a baked sweet potato and veggieGreek Black Olive and Feta Burgers with Baked Skinny Fries and light English muffins for buns and a side green saladAnd here’s what you’ll need from the store (for 4 servings per recipe)
  Slender Kitchen Shopping List
  
  Dairy & Refrigerated
  8 eggs
  1/2 cup reduced fat milk
  1.5 oz. reduced fat feta cheese
  2.5 cups nonfat plain Greek yogurt
  
  
  Meat
  1.33 lbs. boneless skinless chicken thighs
  24 oz. wild salmon
  1.33 lbs. 95% lean ground beef
  1 lb. 99% lean ground turkey
  1.33 lbs. boneless skinless chicken breast tenderloins
  
  
  Produce
  Garlic
  1 onion
  1 red onion
  2 inches fresh ginger
  4 cups asparagus
  12 oz. mushrooms
  6 green onions
  Thai basil (or regular)
  1 cauliflower
  2/3 lb. potatoes
  2/3 lb. turnips
  1 lemon
  Parsley
  4 bananas
  4 sweet potatoes
  Veggies for 2 dinners
  Side salad veggies for 1 dinner
  Fresh fruit
  
  
  Grains & Canned Goods
  1.5 dry cups quinoa
  4 oz. low sodium chicken broth
  2 cups oats
  1 cup brown rice
  Light English muffins
  
  
  Other
  Low sodium soy sauce
  Asian chili garlic paste (like sambal olek)
  1/2 cup low sodium chicken broth
  Unsweetened cocoa powder
  1/4 cup black olives
  
  
  Pantry
  Cooking spray
  Olive oil
  Coconut oil
  Brown sugar
  Balsamic vinegar
  
  
  Spices
  Salt
  Pepper
  Garlic powder
  Onion powder
  Chili powder
  Smoked paprika
  Oregano
  Dried dill
  Thyme
  
  
  
  Interested in more Slender Kitchen recipes? Sign up for our newsletter to receive free healthy recipes in your inbox.
  
  Never Miss a Recipe!
  
  Join over 50,000 people who get fresh and
  FREE recipes from Slender Kitchen directly on their inbox. We respect Privacy, You’re Safe! No Spam!"