"If you want to squeeze out every last drop of summer like we do, you probably already have the next few months booked with beaches, boating, and barbecuing! We decided to collect and share our favorite low-calorie cocktails to make your next summer party a hit without any trial and error. These healthy drinks are made with simple ingredients instead of high-calorie, sugar-filled mixes that can leave you with a nasty headache. Instead, these healthier options made with real fruit and vegetables are fresh, low in calories, and absolutely scrumptious!
  
  1. Sassy Skinny Margarita by Get Healthy U
  I love a good margarita, but if you plan on ordering one at a restaurant, you might need to squeeze in an extra workout. The traditional margarita is high in calories, sugar, and artificial everything. However, our Sassy Skinny Margarita is easy to make, has six simple ingredients, and tastes amazing!
  
  2. Watermelon Mojito by Get Healthy U
  They key to a good Watermelon Mojito is fresh watermelon and mint. This drink is absolutely perfect for an afternoon of porch or deck lounging with a group of friends. Cheers!
  
  3. Piña Co-Co Lada by Get Healthy U
  Frozen drinks are often made from a mix that is high in artificial flavors, sugar, calories, and fat. Our quick and easy Piña Co-Co Lada has real fruit and light coconut milk that adds that decadent creamy tropical flavor!
  
  4. Lemonade Cucumber Fizz Cocktail by Get Healthy U
  This healthy low-calorie Lemonade Cucumber Fizz recipe has so many layers of fresh lemon, rose, and cucumber flavors that your guests will be blown away by your mixologist skills.
  
  Now that we have wet your bartending whistle, take a peak at these healthy cocktail recipes we’ve stirred up from around the web that look delicious and keep you sipping on the lighter side.
  5. Pear Sangria by Lemon Tree Dwelling
  All you need is five-ingredients and a sunny day to sip on this fun version of a sangria!
  
   6. Coconut Gin and Tonics by Minimalist Baker
  Coconut water is the secret to this tropical and fresh gin and tonic!
  
  7. Peach Kiss by Cosmopolitan
  I love peach iced tea on a hot summer day. Cool off with this light and slightly sweet alcoholic version.
  
  8. Blueberry Lemon Breeze by Fitness Magazine
  We had to offer at least one cocktail with champagne! Perfect with a nice dinner, this bubbly blueberry-infused cocktail is as good as it sounds.
  
  9. Chamomile Honey and Whiskey Cocktail by A Cozy Kitchen
  You’ll mix this drink hot by adding all the ingredients to boiled chamomile tea, but then you’ll chill it over ice for a cool and refreshing adult sipper.
  
  Click download below for more cocktail recipes!
  
  Want more delicious, better-for-you cocktail recipes? Download here!
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 5 Healthy Summer Salsa Recipes"