"You know the blotchy, red, dryness that takes over your face as temperatures drop and the heat comes on? Or the scaly appearance your legs adapt upon the first frost? If you live anywhere that gets even moderately cold in the winter, the answer is probably yes. But the truth is, winter doesn’t have to spell disaster for your skin. Your skin is your body’s largest organ after all, and a huge indicator of your overall health—it’s understandable to want it to be moisturized and luminous all year round! Luckily, we’ve got nine winter skin care solutions to keep your skin soft, glowing and gorgeous amidst even the harshest cold. Follow these winter skin care tips and you’ll boast a better glow than your friend who took that covetable trip to St. Bart’s. 
  1) Use Water Replenishment Sheet Masks
  You can slather on all the moisturizer you want, but nothing hydrates like a face mask—particularly a cotton sheet mask. If you haven’t tried cotton sheet masks before, get ready for a mini spa facial: they’re drenched in glow-reviving serum that helps to seal in moisture. Recline with one of these water replenishment cotton sheet masks on your face and prepare for 20 minutes of moisturizing bliss. When it’s time to remove the mask, rub in the remaining product and bask in how smooth, hydrated and healthy your skin looks.
  2) Exfoliate
  Quite simply, the more dead skin cells you have on your face, the less bright and luminous it will look, and the same goes for the rest of your body. Slough away dead cells and repair your complexion with a gentle facial exfoliator or use an exfoliating body polish for an all-over skin revival. In the summer, it’s often second-nature to take care of our skin simply because more of it is on display, but letting dead skin cells pile up during the winter will leave you itchy, flaky and dry all over.
   3) Eat Skin-Perfecting Foods
  
  Taking care of your skin isn’t just about what you put on your body, but what you put in it too. Try loading up on these skin-perfecting foods in the winter months to make your complexion extra soft, clear, and bright. (Bonus: these foods will help keep you healthy, too!)
  
  Green tea helps with redness.
  The omega 3 fatty acids in walnuts, salmon and spinach help soften skin.
  Blueberries brighten up dull skin.
  Grapefruit stimulates the production of collagen.
  Eggs promote healthy, smooth skin.
  
  4) Reach For The Fish Oil
  You might already know that Vitamin D benefits your skin (and mood!) but are you taking fish oil, too? Those omega-3 fatty acids we mentioned before are also found in fish oil; taking the supplement helps with dry skin and can also make your hair shiny and stronger. They often make fish oil and Vitamin D supplements that come in one pill, so you can improve your skin while also getting the mood-boosting benefits of Vitamin D.
  Related: 7 Signs You May Be Vitamin D Deficient
  5) Boost Circulation with Yoga
  Another side effect of winter months is less exercise, but movement is important not just to stay healthy, but also to keep your skin glowing. When you exercise, you boost your entire body’s circulation and sweat out toxins. If you want a low-impact way to do so, try some gentle yoga poses designed to get oxygen flowing, like inversions. Inversions are yoga poses that find you upside down: like a simple forward fold, downward dog, or headstand. By getting your blood flowing to your head, inversions increase your circulation and help you boast a more refreshed complexion.
  6) Sweat It Out 
  
  You may be surprised to learn that the summer glow you miss come December can be recaptured with a little old-fashioned perspiration. Sweating helps open pores and release the buildup inside of them, clearing blemishes and promoting a healthy complexion while flushing the body of toxins. During the winter, try to take in plenty of water and continue to exercise regularly to keep your body sweating.. If you can, spend time in a sauna or steam room to get some extra sweat time, reviving your dull, ruddy skin in as little as 15 minutes.
  7) Stock Up On Coconut Oil
  While the mall is full of expensive wrinkle creams and moisturizers, we’re fans of one product that hydrates better than the rest—and you can find it for a few dollars at your local supermarket: coconut oil. Coconut oil is the ultimate skin-smoother, helping to reduce the appearance of wrinkles and lines while moisturizing like a dream. (Not to mention there are tons of great uses for coconut oil aside from skincare!) Try slathering some on post-shower or bath everyday and take note of how much softer your winter skin starts to feel.
  8) Get Steamy
  Taking care of your skin in the winter is all about defending it from dryness! Similar to sweating it out in a sauna or steam room, you can restore moisture to your face without having a fancy gym membership or a built-in steam room thanks to at-home facial steamers. They make different kinds that all soften your skin and open your pores as well as a high-priced facial (cucumber slices on your eyes sold separately).
  9) Fake It Til’ You Make It
  We’ve long known that taking care of your skin means staying away from indoor tanning beds, but what do you do when the winter blahs make you miss your summer tan? A lot of self-tanners don’t smell all that great, deliver a streaky glow, and are made of chemicals. We found two brands that work better and streak less: both Per-fekt and True Natural deliver a warm glow all year round without the use of harmful chemicals.
  READ THIS NEXT: 8 Healthy Steps To Look Younger"