"Looking for the best ab workout for women? We’ve got the definitive list. Many women wonder how many crunches a day it takes to get flat abs. The answer is NONE. When it comes to ab exercises for women, crunches are going to fall toward the bottom of our list.
  Instead, we’ve come up with our 15 best ab exercises for women that will effectively target lower abs, obliques and help you shed fat and tone up.
  Ab Exercises List
  Abdominal muscle groupsV-upsSide Plank DipsSide Plank Reach ThroughToe ReachPlankBicycle CrunchBoat PoseSweeping ScissorsSide to Side ObliquesBend Extend Ab TuckSpiderman AbsForearm Star PlankHip DipDouble Leg StretchPlank to Balance Plank
  Abdominal Muscle Groups
  
  Transversus Abdominus
  Think of this as an internal corset that pulls you in nice and tight keeping your tummy tight and your back strong. When you cough or blow out candles, this is the muscle you are engaging.
  External Obliques
  These are the large muscles that wrap around your rib cage starting just beneath your arms. They help you flex, bend, twist and rotate.
  Internal Obliques
  These are deeper side muscles than the external obliques and help to stabilize you.
  Rectus Abdominus
  This is the one most people think of when they look at their abs because it is noticeable. It is the muscle that runs up the front of the body and looks like a 6-pack when super lean. The rectus abdominus helps to flex the spine as well as provide stabilization during side bending and while your extremities are moving.
  
  Related: 9 Tips + Workout To Get Rid of Lower Belly Fat
  Our 15 Best Ab Exercises For Women
  Knowing all of that, we have chosen 15 of our best ab moves to include in this ab workout that tackle all four muscles of the abdominals. 
  Below, each of the ab exercises is explained and shown just for you! They are all bodyweight only, making them user-friendly anytime and anywhere. Plus, we layout options for how to put them together for the ultimate ab workout for women! Here are some ideas:
  Tighten the Core: Go down the list and perform each exercise once for 24 reps each (12 per side if sides are given or a 30-second hold for isometrics like a plank). This will give you a chance to learn each move and experience them completely. It’s also a great quick workout before zipping up some tight jeans or slipping into a swimsuit.Make it a 15-minute ab workout! Perform each move for 16 reps (8 per side or 15-second hold isometrics) and do the whole list 3 times through. This gives you an awesome workout that tightens and defines your abs and a 15-minute ab workout for women on the move.Complete a Workout! Select your 8 favorite exercises from our list and tack them on to the end of your power walk, cycle session or leg day. It’s always good to add a bit of core to any workout. Remember – it’s not just about a flat tummy. You are also strengthening your back for life!! Perform each move for 50 seconds, with 10 seconds to transition. In just 8 short minutes you’ll be so glad you did!
  The Best Ab Workout for Women
  V-ups
  
  
  
  V-ups are one of the best ab workouts for women because they also develop incredible balance.
  How to perform v-ups:
  1) Lie flat on the floor and extend your arms behind your head. Keep your feet together and toes pointed.
  2) Keep your legs straight and lift them up as you simultaneously raise your upper body off the floor. Keep your core tight as you reach for your toes with your hands. Slowly lower yourself back down to the starting position.
  Targets: transverse abdominus, rectus abdominus
  Side Plank Dips
  
  
  
  Side plank dips are obliques exercises for women looking to develop core strength and enviable side abs.
  How to perform side plank lift and lower:
  1) Start by laying on your right side with forearm below shoulder, body lifted and legs long and feet stacked. Keep body straight, abs tight and place left hand on hip.
  2) Dip your hips down towards the mat and lift back up using your obliques and core muscles.
  Targets: internal obliques, external obliques
  Side Plank Reach Through
  
  
  
  The side plank reach through is one of the best ab oblique combination movements. You must keep your core engaged the entire time – you’ll be feeling this move!
  How to perform a side plank scoop:
  1) Begin in a full side plank position with right hand below shoulder, left arm reaching high above left shoulder and legs long. (Modify by placing bottom knee onto mat if needed)
  2) Tighten abdominals and slowly scoop left arm under the body, following with your eyes until you see behind you.
  3) Slowly reach left hand back to start position.
  4) Repeat for desired number of repetitions and switch sides.
  Targets: transverse abdominus, internal obliques, external obliques, rectus abdominus
  Toe Reach
  
  
  
  The toe reach is different than the classic crunch you see in most ab workouts for women. This focuses on core engagement and the rectus abdominus and the transverse abdomunus.
  How to perform toe touches with reach:
  1) Start on back with legs long reaching towards the ceiling.
  2) Bring head, neck, and shoulders off the mat and reach arms up towards the feet. Return to the tips of the shoulders and repeat.
  Targets: rectus abdominus, transverse abdominus
  Plank
  
  
  
  The plank is a staple part of most ab workouts because it recruits the entire core.
  How to perform a plank:
  1) Begin kneeling on all fours with hand directly under shoulders and toes on the mat.
  2) Tighten abdominals and raise your body up off the floor, lengthening legs behind you. Hold entire body tight for desired amount of time and breathe.
  Targets: transverse abdominus
  Bicycle Crunch
  
  
  
  The bicycle crunch builds coordination, a strong core, and is one of the best ab movements.
  How to perform a bicycle:
  1) Start lying on back with feet off the floor and legs in a tabletop position. Hands are behind the head and head, neck, and shoulders are flexed off the mat.
  2) Bring one knee in and the opposite elbow over reaching towards it. Repeat on the other side in a criss cross motion working the obliques.
  Targets: transverse abdominus, internal obliques, external obliques, rectus abdominus
  Boat Pose
  
  
  
  Boat pose is deceptively simple. This move takes incredible core strength and builds core strength. A win-win.
  How to perform boat pose:
  1) From a seated position, draw naval to spine bracing abdominals and, with hands on floor behind you, bring your legs up off the floor with knees bent in front of the chest.
  2) Keeping abdominals tight, slowly lift hands off floor and reach them forward and up while simultaneously lengthening legs upward. Your body will look like a “V” shape. Lengthen spine as you hold. (If your hamstrings are too tight, bend knees slightly.)
  3) Keep abdominals tight and breathe. Stay for 30-60 seconds or as long as you can.
  Targets: transverse abdominus, rectus abdominus
  Sweeping Scissors
  
  
  
  How to perform sweeping scissors:
  1) Start lying on the mat with arms over your head and legs long.
  2) Sweep arms out to sides and bring head, neck, and shoulders off the mat reaching arms long and lift one leg up and in towards the chest.  Reaching arms forward on the sides of the leg. Roll back to mat lowering the leg, and repeat on the other side.
  Targets: transverse abdominus, rectus abdominus
  Side To Side Obliques
  
  
  
  The side to side obliques move is one of the best ab exercises for women who want to target the obliques.
  How to perform side to side obliques:
  1) Lie on mat and bring knees into the chest forming a tabletop position. Bring the head, neck and shoulder off the mat coming into crunch reaching arms long at the sides.
  2) Exhale as you reach right fingers to the right side and forward then return to center on the inhale. Exhale and reach left fingers to the left side and forward. Switch side to side without lowering onto the mat.
  Targets: transverse abdominus, internal obliques, external obliques, rectus abdominus
  Bend Extend Ab Tuck
  
  
  
  Ab workouts don’t have to be boring. There’s always a new variation to try, just like this bend extend ab tuck.
  How to perform bend extend ab tuck:
  1) Start seated on mat with arms behind you, hands on the mat and fingers facing your backside. Sit back on your hands and lift up your feet off the mat keeping the knees bent.
  2) Keep abs tight and press your legs out long and lower back down slightly. You should feel your lower abdominals working, then push yourself back up and pull your knees in to return to your starting position.
  Targets: transverse abdominus, rectus abdominus
  Spiderman Abs
  
  
  
  How do you flatten lower abs? This spiderman abs move is a start! It’s a move that hurts so good – give it a try and your lower abs will be at attention.
  How to perform spiderman abs:
  1) Start in a plank position with hands on mat slightly wider than shoulders, legs long behind you and abdominals and glutes squeezed tight.
  2)  Pull the left knee toward the outside of your left elbow and hold for one count. Return to the starting and repeat on right side.
  Targets: transverse abdominus, external obliques, internal obliques
  Forearm Star Plank
  
  
  
  Wondering how women can really strengthen their core? Through consistent core work and switching things up. This forearm star plank is a variation on the plank that will help you strengthen your core and even those lower abs that can be so hard to get.
  How to perform forearm star plank:
  1) Begin lying on right side, forearm on the floor, body lifted, and legs extended long on the mat with feet stacked.
  2) Tighten abdominals and lift left leg and arm up in the air. Hold them straight and keep body still for desired amount of time. Switch sides.
  Targets: external obliques, internal obliques, transverse abdominus
  Hip Dips
  
  
  
  While no one workout can get rid of love handles (only fat loss and clean eating can do that – sorry!) hip dips really build those oblique muscles. Strong, defined obliques are muscles to be proud of.
  How to perform hip dips:
  1) Begin in a forearm plank position with your forearms flat on the mat, making sure that your elbows are aligned directly under your shoulders, your core is engaged, and your body is in a straight line from your head to your feet.
  2) Lower your left hip toward the floor until it almost touches and then immediately raise back to center.
  3) Repeat on the right side.
  Target: transverse abdominus, external obliques, internal obliques
  Double Leg Stretch
  
  
  
  How to perform double leg stretch:
  1) Start lying on back with knees bent 90 degrees and arms lengthened alongside calves.  The low back should be pressed against the mat with head, neck and shoulders flexed up off the mat.
  2) As you inhale, stretch your arms straight behind your head and legs straight to a diagonal position in front. As you exhale, circle arms around and back to legs while drawing knees back in to the 90-degree angle. Repeat for desired number of reps.
  Targets: transverse abdominus, rectus abdominus
  Plank To Balance Plank
  
  
  
  How to perform plank to balance plank:
  1) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists and your body in a straight line.
  2) Simultaneously raise your right hand off and left foot off the floor, squeezing abs and glutes.
  Targets: transverse abdominus
  Ab Exercise FAQs
  Which ab exercise is the most effective?
  The bicycle crunch is the most effective abdominal workout, according to a study by the American Council on Exercise. They looked into this, ranking the best and worst abdominal exercises in order of their effectiveness.
  The study looked at the effects of a number of different exercises, including traditional crunches and an ab roller on 30 healthy volunteers.
  The study was carried out on a mix of people with different exercise routines. The participants were measured for 13 different exercises, using an electromyograph.
  How do you lose that belly fat over those ab muscles to show off your hard work?
  To burn the fat over your abs, you need to lose bodyfat overall. To do this you need to take into account both caloric intake and your exercise regimen. In terms of exercise, be sure to do cardio exercises that are focused on the lower body to elevate your heart rate.
  This includes running or even power walking on a treadmill for at least 30 minutes. HIIT workouts are a great way to torch calories and burn fat.
  What kind of food should I eat for flat abs?
  Is there any special food that will help me get a flat tummy? While there’s no “six-pack-abs ingredient” what you eat matters tremendously. Eating a clean high protein, low carb diet with plenty of veggies is going to help you achieve your goal.
  Also be mindful of your digestion. If you’re eating foods that are irritating to your system it could be causing issues and you’ll need to learn to debloat your food choices. Prime bloating suspects include, sugar, alcohol, and salty foods. 
  READ THIS NEXT: 8 Strength Training Moves Women Over 50 Should Do"