"Wine, a fancy dinner, more wine, and a molten chocolate lava cake is not a bad way to spend Valentine’s Day with a significant other. But, if you’re looking for something a bit more active, a bit more adventurous, and a bit less caloric than usual, we’re here to help with seven active date ideas guaranteed to spark romance!
  Before deciding on your date of choice, make sure to peruse sites like Groupon or Living Social to find deals. Lots of these activities can be snagged at a lower price with a little searching. And make sure your mate actually likes what you have planned before you purchase. Not everyone is as giddy for glow in the dark laser tag as you!
   1. Go indoor rock climbing
  
  Belay your babe on the rock wall to burn calories and practice trust. Most big cities have indoor rock climbing venues that welcome both first-timers and experienced climbers. If you’re a competitive couple, challenge each other to a timed race along the same route. You’ll walk a way with a sense of accomplishment and arms that feel like you just did 100 push-ups.
  Related: 9 Healthy Valentine’s Day Dessert Recipes
  2. Sign-up for a ballroom dance class
  
  Forget Dancing With The Stars. How about dancing with your hot date? Elevate your rhythm and heart rate with a calorie-burning ballroom dance class. You can walk in completely clueless and dance out the door like Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, err, kinda.
   3. Bundle up for a winter sport
  
  Put on a hat and grab your honey for a chilly tryst. Snow shoeing, cross-country or downhill skiing, ice skating, and sledding all work up a sweat while sneaking in a strength workout. Post-athletics, defrost with a mug of hot chocolate and a cuddle-inducing fire.
   4. Get steamy at hot yoga
  
  Raise the stakes and roll out a mat at a sweaty hot yoga class with your sweetie. Bikram yoga is done at upwards of 105 degrees, so your dueling down dogs are guaranteed to get drippy. And if you’re looking for a low-impact date, yoga is a great choice!
   5. Bounce around at a trampoline park
  
  
  A couple that jumps together stays together, right? Follow the sage advice and head to an indoor trampoline park like Sky Zone to bounce around, flip into foam pits, or take a trampoline fitness classes. Amidst laughs and tumbles, you’ll be burning around 40 calories ever ten minutes on the tramp.
  6. Run a race together
  
  Lace up your sneakers and grab your loved one for a race. Here’s the list of Valentine Day’s races around the country. Now, it’s up to you guys to decide if you’re crossing the finish line holding hands or battling for the win and bragging rights.
  7. Schedule a couple’s massage
  
  Laying on a table with a massage therapist doing all the work doesn’t seem that “active” but a massage is a serious benefit to any health routine. You and your partner will both feel relief of muscle tension and pain, a decrease in inflammation, and a reduction of anxiety. Walk away happy, stress-free, and looking to continue the massage elsewhere!
  Now, go get your daring date on!
  READ THIS NEXT: A Healthy Valentine’s Dinner In"