"Meal delivery services are all the rage right now. And honestly, who knew this would become such a booming business?! But with our fast-paced world, let’s be honest, grocery shopping and meal planning can be a major pain in the butt. And so often, we end up eating a few too many meals out wasting money and calories. That’s why at Get Healthy U, we strongly believe in the power of home cooking. But we also know how busy everyone’s lives are so when we had to opportunity to work with Blue Apron, we jumped at the chance.
  What Exactly Is Blue Apron?
  You may have heard of meal delivery services before – ingredients and directions shipped right to your front door and all you have to do is assemble. Blue Apron is no different; it’s a subscription service that delivers fresh, pre-measured ingredients to your doorstep each week in a temperature controlled box. All the ingredients, with the exception of salt, pepper and olive oil, were included and each meal came with a one-sheet that listed all of the ingredients and full, easy-to-follow instructions.
  Related: Top 10 Reasons To Ditch The Diet Cycle
  What Was In The Box?
  Meal 1: Beef Knockwurst & Sauerkraut
  The first meal we made was their “Beef Knockwurst & Sauerkraut.” And one of the very first things we noticed was that the ingredients came in the exact amount we needed. There was no need to measure anything because they had done all that for us, which ultimately led to less cleanup and time spent in the kitchen too! For instance, instead of buying a full cabbage from the grocery store and tossing ¾ of it away, we received exactly what we needed: ¼ of a cabbage. And speaking of the grocery store, did we mention we didn’t have to go?! Major bonus. No fumbling through the store with kids in tow or waiting in line at the checkout; nope, just lifting a box from the front door to the kitchen was all that was involved. And no meal planning either!
  
  We sampled the plan to serve two people and this meal did just that. No real leftovers, but just enough for a delicious, healthy dinner for two.
  
  Meal 2: Shrimp and Squid Ink Spaghetti
  The second meal we tried was a “Shrimp and Squid Ink Spaghetti.” And while we’ve done our fair share of cooking on the Get Healthy U team, we had never tried squid ink spaghetti! Our sheet of instructions gave us some background information on the ingredients and sure enough we learned that squid ink is used to color the noodles and this particular ingredient is a delicacy in parts of the world!
  
  Simple and straightforward to make, this dish was a delicious combination of seafood flavors with fresh snap peas, lemon and a little kick from the red pepper flakes. For being a pasta dish, it felt very light and served two people. Plus, it’s something we probably would’ve never tried before if not for Blue Apron.
  
  Meal 3: Chicken and Sweet Pepper Tostadas
  The final and favorite dish our team made was the Chicken and Sweet Pepper Tostadas. Once again, the ease in which everything was laid out was a major plus. The Blue Apron one-sheets really stood out and made putting the meals together a breeze. Each meal also comes with nutritional information so you can clearly see what you’re getting.
  
  The Mexican flavors in the chicken and sweet pepper tostadas were outstanding, plus it came with a side dish of summer squash that was simply roasted in the oven. With Blue Apron, there’s really no need for past cooking experience since the directions are laid out so clearly and so much of the dish is already prepped for you!
  
  What Are The Pros and Cons?
  Pros:
  
  No thinking or planning required. We had three built-in dinners guaranteed for the week!
  We expanded our culinary horizons. Trying squid ink spaghetti was a total new thing for us and we loved experimenting with different ingredients!
  The instructions were very easy to follow. You can be kitchen challenged and not screw this up.
  Top-notch ingredients. We were impressed by all the fresh produce and high-quality meats.
  
  Cons:
  
  If you’re a picky eater, this is probably not the service for you. The recipes are varied and filled with flavors that might be new to your palette.
  If you’re very concerned with low-calorie all the time, this might not be for you. We typically don’t count calories when we’re eating as we just try to eat whole foods with lots of fruits and veggies. However if this is a priority to you, you may need to select your meals more carefully. For instance, the Beef Knockwurst had 690 calories per serving which is a fairly normal meal portion, however you may not want to be this high if you’re trying to stick to a weight loss goal.
  
  Related: 5 Forbidden Foods That Are Making A Comeback
  What’s This Gonna Cost Me?
  You can choose between two and four serving depending on how many people are in your home. If you choose two, you’re looking at $9.99 per serving and if you choose 4, you’re looking at $8.99 per serving. So if you’re one to spend money going out to eat on a regular basis, this is definitely a cheaper option. PLUS, Blue Apron was kind enough to offer $35 off your first delivery!! And the convenience of not having to go to the grocery store, meal plan or clean up as much may be well worth it!
  
  
  Are Meal Delivery Services Worth It?
  Long story short: if you have the right situation for it, then yes.  The convenience and variety of Blue Apron cannot be beat so if you find yourself struggling to eat healthy due to all the meal planning, grocery shopping and hours spent in the kitchen prepping and cleaning up, Blue Apron may just be the solution for you! Or, if you want to learn new skills in the kitchen and experiment with new flavors, this is a great beginner’s level way to do it!
  Click below to order your Blue Apron meals and start eating healthy and conveniently today!
  
  Get Healthy U was not compensated for this post other than two free Blue Apron boxes. All opinions (and taste buds!) are 100% our own.
  READ THIS NEXT: Cook Once, Eat All Week"