"In partnership with Weber Grill. All opinions are my own.
  Think grilling is just for the guys? Think again!
  While historically known as more of the man’s domain, there’s no reason why girls can’t get out there and fire up the grill themselves!
  What?  You don’t know how to grill?  Let’s change that because I’m on a mission to prove #girlscangrill!
  It’s true; I used to be intimidated by grilling and early on, I let my husband do most of the outdoor cooking. However, once we got our Weber gas grill and I learned how easy it was, I was hooked!
  In fact, not only did I feel confident cooking up chicken, fish, and veggies on the grill, but I wanted to!
  And now I want to help you master grilling as a way to eat healthy, without sacrificing on flavor.
  Related: 8 Healthy Marinades & Rubs For Summer Grilling
  Watch my video below to see how easy and fun it is!  Simple prep, simple clean up, and delicious food!
   
  Grilling Tips
  Here’s why I love grilling with Weber and my best tips for success:
  
  My Weber Grill is easy to turn on. There’s no charcoal, no lighters or lighter fluid, no matches needed, a simple click of a button and we’re cooking.
  Prepping your food for the grill is quick and simple. So much flavor comes from the grill itself that you can actually keep it simple: olive oil, salt, pepper and maybe some herbs are all you need. Some of my favorite foods to put on the grill are vegetables like sweet potatoes, zucchini, and asparagus. And you can’t forget the meat! Chicken and salmon are two of my favorite proteins to cook on the grill as well.
  Quit peaking and no over flipping. Because if you’re looking, it ain’t cookin’. Go ahead and use a timer or a meat thermometer. My tip to not overcooking your meat is to take it off a few minutes before it’s done. While you prepare the rest of your food, your meat will finish cooking as it rests.
  Clean up with the grill is a snap. No pots and pans to scrub. Keep it simple so you keep enjoying your guests, your family and the beautiful summer evening.
  
  Ready to get started? Download the Weber grilling guide– for free!
  It’s loaded with tips since grilling is just as much science as it is art.
  Learn the 10 keys to success at the grill as well as amazing charts to follow for temperature zones and how to avoid overcooking your food.
  By following the steps in this guide you will quickly become a true backyard hero!
  
  4 Summertime Grilling Recipes
  Foil Packet Grilled Chicken & Veggies
  
  For a simple and healthy dinner, try this foil packet chicken with broccoli, cauliflower and carrots. It’s an absolute cinch to make with barely any clean-up and it can be totally customized to your liking!
  Foil Packet Grilled Salmon & Veggies
  
  Another foil packet option, this grilled salmon with asparagus, red pepper and summer squash is such a delicious weeknight meal ready in just 25 minutes.
  Kabobs 3 Ways
  
  Kabobs are such a fun and festive way to serve up dinner. And we’ve got three awesome combinations for you to choose from.
  Grilled Peaches & Pineapple
  
  This no-added sugar dessert cannot be beat! Grill up some pineapple and peaches until the natural sugars begin to caramelize and serve alongside fresh basil and vanilla bean ice cream, if you wish.
  READ THIS NEXT: 9 Low-Calorie Cocktail Recipes For Healthier Sipping"