"In the midst of the coronavirus outbreak, many of us are hunkered down and self-quarantining in our homes. And while there may a lot of anxiety and uncertainty around the world right now, we get to choose to focus on the positive and take advantage of this time we do have at home.
  And one of the best ways to do this is by exercising at home. Not only can you work on your physical fitness but exercise can often provide a great source of stress relief and tapping into our inner strength.
  So though gyms may be closed, that doesn’t mean you can’t get your sweat on. In fact, we work out at home all the time, quarantined or not. Whether through my online workout-streaming membership site Get Healthy U TV, or the variety of home workouts we’ve created below, we know that a good calorie-burning sweat session is just a click away.
  Make the most of this time at home during the coronavirus outbreak to try these workouts; we’ve got low-impact options, full-body workouts and even yoga routines! And don’t miss our ab workout at home!
  Best At-Home Workouts
  Mom & Baby At-Home Strength Workout
  
  Got a baby at home? We get it – it can be tough to fit in a workout with a little one at your toes or in your arms which is why we created this mom and baby at-home strength workout.
  The solution? Workout WITH your baby at home! For this workout, you only need a good pair of shoes, a mat and your baby!
  Best Ab Workout At Home
  
  The truth of the matter is after a few crunches and planks, sometimes you end up at a loss for how else to work your abs. That’s why this ab workout at home is perfect for you!
  Strengthening your core and flattening your tummy is so much more than just performing crunches endlessly or holding a plank. This ab workout will teach you the proper way to work your abs as well and give you effective moves you can do at home without any equipment.
  At-Home Butt & Thigh Workout
  
  This at-home lower body workout is designed to give you the benefits of leaner legs and a tighter tush.
  The exercises included are going to strengthen and tone those lower body muscles while also giving you amazing cardiovascular results by getting your heart pumping and your sweat dripping!
  Even better? There’s no equipment needed for this lower body workout at home.
  30-Minute Full-Body Bodyweight Workout
  
  Ready to get your sweat on? Do this 30-minute full-body workout that will work all the major muscle groups. You don’t need any equipment—just your own bodyweight and a little room to move.
  A Low-Impact High-Results Workouts To Do At Home
  
  Injury, overuse, chronic pain— there are so many reasons to choose low-impact activities. In fact, even if you don’t have a specific physical reason you NEED to choose low impact, it’s still a good idea to put it in the mix for good preventative care. For those of you who still want that killer workout, here’s the good news: low impact does NOT mean low intensity.
  You can choose low-impact exercise and still put forth a maximal work effort to get great results. In fact, we’ve created this low-impact workout just for you with some of the best exercises to do at home!
  Your Perfect Morning and Nightime Yoga Routines
  
  Here are two mini-workouts that do double-duty. Not only can they each be done in about 10 minutes, these workouts will either help you get moving in the morning (or anytime you need a little pick-me-up) or help you wind down from a stressful day.
  Bookend your day cooped up at home with these practices and your body and mind will thank you!
  Your Upper Body Workout At Home
  
  This upper body workout at home is just the solution to get you moving toward a toned, sculpted and strong upper body that is ready to bare all! And when we can finally come out of this quarantine, you can show off your fabulous arms.
  Once you’ve picked your workout of choice, be sure to check out our best hacks to improve your at-home workouts.
  
  Stay safe, be healthy and remember we’re all in this together. I’d love to follow along with your at-home workouts on social. Be sure to tag me on Facebook and Instagram @chrisfreytag.
  READ THIS NEXT: 6 Yoga Poses To Relieve Anxiety"