"2018 is coming to an end, which means it’s list-making season for the year’s best recipes! We’ve rounded up our top recipes from the past 12 months, and we’re sure you’re going to want to whip one of these up immediately. From soups to desserts and everything in between, there’s a reason these recipes were the ones our writers, editors and readers were loving this year! These are the 20 BEST recipes of the year.
  1. Detox Vegetable Soup from The Healthy Maven
  For the second year in a row, this recipe comes in at #1 for our most popular recipe of the year! And we know why. If you’re trying to eat clean, this low-fat detox soup is perfection. It includes a ton of colorful vegetables and is vitamin-rich and fiber-filled. This rich and flavorful soup is a great go-to snack that tastes amazing and is so healthy!
  
  2. Lavender Honey Iced Coffee
  Our Lavender Honey Iced Coffee is light, floral and best of all, dairy-free and refined-sugar-free to keep it healthy and indulgent at the same time! It’s the perfect alternative to calorie- and sugar-packed lattes and mochas at your coffee shop (and will save you some serious cash to make yourself!).
  
   
  3. Low-Cal Southwestern Chicken Soup
  This low-calorie Southwestern Chicken Soup recipe is so easy to make and a great way to incorporate fiber and vegetables into your diet. This soup is gluten-free, dairy-free and packed with Southwestern flavors that your whole family will love.
  
  4. Crunchy Cashew Thai Quinoa Salad with Ginger Peanut Dressing from Ambitious Kitchen
  This quinoa salad is one of our favorites. It’s filled with carrots, cabbage, quinoa, cilantro, cashews, red pepper and onion. It totally hits the spot and is the perfect healthy lunch!
  
  5. Shepherd’s Pie with Sweet Potato Topping from The Real Food RDs
  This healthy shepherd’s pie recipe is gluten-free, whole 30 friendly, dairy-free and  packed with protein. The sweet potato topping is our favorite part, and is a great, healthier alternative to the traditional mashed potato topping. This recipe freezes super well and makes the perfect weekday meal when you aren’t in the mood to cook!
  
  6. Chicken Stir Fry
  This homemade chicken stir-fry recipe skips the MSG and additives and is packed with fresh veggies! This recipe is a healthier version of traditional stir-fry and is one your whole family will love.
  
   
   
  7. Tequila & Soda
  The simplicity of this recipe is only matched by the perfection in flavor. Ice and tequila topped with club soda and a squeeze of lime and grapefruit make for the perfect low-calorie, super-refreshing cocktail.
  
  8. Cilantro Lime Tilapia from Food Faith Fitness
  This recipe is so simple to prepare, but tastes like a gourmet meal! The mixture of flavors is incredible, and it’s a huge bonus that it is much easier than it looks to prepare.
  
  9. Crispy Cauliflower Bites with Sriracha Dipping Sauce
  These are a true GHU team favorite! Healthy cauliflower with just the perfect amount of crunch and spice from the sriracha dipping sauce. They’re the perfect appetizer for game day, game night, or just a healthy snack and we promise, even your non-healthy friends will be coming back for more!
  
  10. Banana “Nice Cream” 4 Ways
  Why stop at one when you can have banana “nice” cream four different ways? This popular recipe get a fun flavor makeover with options like mint chip, chocolate peanut butter, matcha and raspberry! And if you’ve never made this dairy-free treat before, what are you waiting for?
  
  11. Buffalo Chicken Stuffed Spaghetti Squash from The Real Food RDs
  This paleo, whole30, grain-free, dairy-free, SUPER delicious recipe for buffalo chicken stuffed spaghetti squash! It takes just 15 minutes to prep and is a delicious entree that everyone will enjoy.
  
  12. Avocado Deviled Eggs
  Upgrade your deviled eggs both in terms of flavor and health with our avocado deviled eggs! Skip the mayo and grab a big spoonful of creamy avocado. Break these out for St. Patrick’s Day or Easter and people won’t be able to get enough.
  
  13. Skinny Italian Stuffed Peppers 
  These stuffed peppers are SO easy to make. We filled them up with ground turkey, quinoa, red sauce and Italian seasoning and throw into the oven for just 15 minutes! They smell great and taste even BETTER!
  
  14. Cheesy Egg White Veggie Breakfast Muffins by Ambitious Kitchen
  What’s low-carb, gluten-free, high-protein and makes for the perfect breakfast? These delicious cheesy egg white & veggie muffins! It’s no wonder they’re so popular; they pack everything you need for a delicious morning into a convenient ready-to-go muffin!
  
  15. Skinny Orange Chicken Casserole by Fit Foodie Finds
  Chinese take-out is well-known for it’s less than healthy ingredients, but now you can make orange chicken at home without the guilt. Packaged in a casserole, it’s a filling and flavorful dinner that your family will request time and time again.
  
  16. Layered BBQ Chicken & Sweet Potato Enchilada Casserole by Ambitious Kitchen
  A little bit sweet and a little bit tangy, this layered bbq chicken & sweet potato enchilada casserole hits all the right notes. It’s a one-pan dinner full of good-for-you ingredients and perfect for taking leftovers in your lunch the next day!
  
  17. Watermelon, Feta & Mint Salad
  We can’t count the number of times guests have been wowed by this recipes. It’s a unique combination that people often haven’t seen, but it’s truly the PERFECT flavor combinations all coming together. This watermelon, feta, mint salad is a staple at all our summertime BBQs and gatherings.
  
  18. Healthy Banana Bread Chocolate Chip Oat Breakfast Bars
  These vegan and gluten-free oat bars are a hit for all! Each bar is only 116 calories and they make the perfect breakfast or on-the-go snack. Plus, who doesn’t love chocolate and banana bread?!
  
   
   
   
   
  19. Thai Spring Rolls with Peanut Dipping Sauce from Heavenlynn Healthy
  These Thai spring rolls are so crisp, fresh, and tasty! They’re gluten-free and super easy to make. This peanut dipping sauce is delicious, made with simple ingredients and no MSG!
  
  20. Crock Pot Low Carb Un-Stuffed Cabbage Roll Soup from Sugar Free Mom
  This healthy recipe for low carb un-stuffed cabbage roll soup is out of this world and is loaded with 31 grams of protein and only 12.6 grams of carbs per serving. This delicious crockpot soup is packed with veggies and makes a delicious, nutritious meal for the whole family.
  
   
  READ THIS NEXT: 11 Healthy, Low-Calorie Holiday Cocktail Recipes"