"As you may know, Team GHU loves fitness fashion. Several of you have written to us and asked us to include the best plus-size activewear in our reviews. Ask and you shall receive. After all, everybody deserves to feel cute and comfortable when they sweat it out, right? We agree that many of the activewear companies are missing the boat by eliminating plus sizes. Thankfully, these 13 brands have awesome plus-size workout clothing that work with your body, not against it.
  Juno Active
  
  Whether you want to swim, run, play tennis, or do yoga, Juno Active has the gear to hook your workout up. We especially love their QuikWik line of activewear that’s made with moisture wicking fabric to keep you dry and comfortable.
  Torrid
  
  Be bold with the fun and flirty styles from Torrid. They’ll make you feel your best, even during a workout. Pick your size and take your pick. You can’t go wrong with any of their workout wear.
  Livi Active by Lane Bryant
  
  Livi Active is like Lane Bryant’s more fun, more popular younger sister. The patterns are bold and the styles are flattering. You’ll want everything!
  Zella by Nordstrom’s
  
  This is our pick for the brand that can easily take you from workout to hangout. From leggings with mesh panels, to pretty pastel zip-ups, each piece is chic enough for the streets and the studio.
  Old Navy
  
  Good ole Old Navy doesn’t disappoint with its affordable but high-quality plus-size activewear line. Each item is specially designed to fit and flatter with wider straps and added stretch. Pair one of their patterned capris with a solid tank. The color combos are endless!
  Superfit Hero
  
  Superfit Hero is a body positivity brand all about confidence, strength and leadership. They’ve got everything from solid color basics to edgier pieces you’ll feel like a boss in.
  Athleta
  
  Most of us are familiar with Athleta, but did you know they also have your everyday favorites in plus sizes? Score! Available in 1X and 2X.
  Addition Elle Nola Activewear
  
  Bold and graphic, an outfit from Nola Activewear will have people asking, “Where’d you get that?” all workout long. PS: If you’re a spin class goer, their cycle shorts are the cutest we’ve seen around!
  Avenue
  
  Comfortable and cute? Yes, please! Get your shop on at Avenue and then get your sweat on.
  Lucy
  
  Lucy activewear has a “fit for every body” by asking real women what they want in activewear! Which means they’re cute, comfortable and provide great coverage!
  Katie K.
  
  Performance, fit, and fashion is the magic formula that goes into every piece of Katie K. clothing. Never buy clothes again that you decide you hate mid-workout and only wear once!
  Target.com
  
  RBX is an online-only brand from Target that absolutely rocks. The prints are whimsical, the fabrics are high-quality, and the prices are low!
  Marika Curves
  
  From drappy sweaters to wear to yoga to tank tops for boot camp, Marika Curves has everything you need. But, we are really liking their high-waisted leggings and capris lined with power mesh for extra tummy control.
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 12 Best Workout Headbands"