"This page may contain affiliate links, meaning at no additional cost to you, Get Healthy U may receive a commission if you click through and make a purchase.
  Developing a yoga practice is an amazing way to stretch your body, center your mind, and build strength. Luckily, all it takes is a mat and a little space—no fancy equipment needed—but there are an overwhelming number of yoga mats to choose from. If you’re a fan of hot yoga, you’ll want one with some no-slip features, to avoid losing your grip once you start sweating. If you have arthritis or other joint problems, you may want a mat with a little extra cushion. And for some, the look and design of a mat may be just as crucial as its features. Depending on your needs (and your budget), there are plenty of options to choose from, so let’s look at the best yoga mats for every need. Here are some of the best yoga mats we’ve found, whether you’re looking for one that can withstand those heated vinyasa flows or simply one that won’t break the bank. Best Design Option: Gaiam Classic Yoga Mat
  
  
  
  These simple yoga mats from Gaiam come in 30 different color and pattern combinations, ensuring you’ll find the perfect design for you. (Seriously, can we have one in every color?) They’re also lightweight enough to easily tote from work to the gym while still providing plenty of cushioning to your joints during a class. Even better? They’re non-toxic and 6P free.
  Cost: $21.98 Best For Beginners: HeathYoga Mat with Body Alignment System 
  
  
  
  New to yoga? Don’t be intimidated. Just like there are plenty of different classes designed for beginners, it turns out there are mats made for beginners, too! HeathYoga offers a textured, no-slip mat that boasts alignment lines running vertically and horizontally. These lines allow yogis of all experience levels to check their alignment just by glancing down during their next inversion.
  Cost: $29.95-$34.95
  Related: 7 Household Fitness Props You Probably Already Own Best For Hot Yoga: Youphoria Yoga Premi-Om Mat 
  
  
  
  Many yoga mats feature an anti-slip grip these days, but this lovely option actually works overtime to absorb liquid, making it perfect for hot yoga or other classes where sweat is a guarantee. It’s also textured on both sides, meaning it will not only keep you from slipping during tricky poses or heated classes, but will keep the mat from slipping on the floor itself. It’s available in several lovely jewel tones and comes with its own carrying sling to make transporting it a breeze.
  Cost: $57 Best Antimicrobial: LuluLemon Reversible Mat
  
  
  
  Alright let’s get real: yoga mats can get gross—quickly. Especially if you’re a fan of hot yoga, you’ll want to clean your yoga mat regularly. But in between those wipe downs, it pays to have a mat that can do some of the heavy lifting for you. This mat from LuluLemon is made with an antimicrobial additive that stops mold and mildew from accumulating before you notice that musty smell coming from inside your gym bag. It earns bonus points for offering extra cushion for your joints and coming in eight fun, reversible styles.
  Cost: $78 Best For On-The-Go: Trideer Yoga Mat
  
  
  
  Even some of the best yoga mats are not always graceful to carry. Somehow, no matter how tightly you roll them, they have the tendency to unfurl themselves in transit. Luckily, this option from Trideer rolls up neatly and tightly and comes with a color-coordinated carrying strap to keep it all in place—so you can easily take your yoga mat from the office to a Vinyasa class.
  Cost: $24.99-$29.99  Best Natural + Eco-Friendly Choice: Ajna Natural Jute Mat
  
  
  
  Unfortunately, some yoga mats are still made out of harsh chemicals and smelly rubbers that leave an odor long after you’ve taken them out of the box. When shopping for a more natural, eco-friendly option, look for a mat that’s both free of chemicals like BPA and PVC and also made out of recyclable materials so it’s better for the environment. This organic, reversible mat from Ajna comes in a variety of elegant finishes, and each has a non-slip backing to reduce movement during class. Plus, for every mat sold, Ajna donates one dollar to “One Tree Planted,” which focuses on reforestation efforts around the globe. (One dollar = one tree planted.)
  Cost: $52.99 Best Heavy Duty Support: Sivan Extra Thick Yoga Mat
  
  
  
  If your elbows, knees, or wrists have ever hurt during a yoga class, you know that sometimes a thin yoga mat can be to blame. Whether you suffer from arthritis or other joint issues—or are simply looking for a more comfortable yoga experience—a thicker yoga mat can work wonders. This heavy duty mat from Sivan is made of thick, NBR foam, which is specifically designed for better impact and absorption, making it easier on your joints. It’s also a bit longer and wider than most yoga mats, giving you plenty of room to move.
  Cost: $20.49 Best Budget-Friendly: GoYoga All-Purpose Mat
  
  
  
  While yoga mats can run the gamut of price points, you don’t have to spend a lot of money to find a quality option. These lightweight mats from GoYoga are just $10.99 a pop and have a non-slip surface on both sides. They’re easy to clean with a little soap and water, and reviewers describe them as “soft yet supportive.” Each mat also comes with a convenient carrying strap for easy transportation.
  Cost: $10.99 Best Oversized Mat: Yuren Oversized Yoga Mat
  
  
  
  For yoga workouts that require a bit more movement—or workouts like Pilates or other mat routines—sometimes you want some extra room. In the case of Yuren’s oversized yoga mat, it’s even big enough for two people to do yoga side by side. So whether you want to involve your kiddos in your next Vinyasa series, practice with a partner, or tackle another type of workout, we’re a fan of bigger options like these to give you plenty of space.
  Cost: $42.99 
  Finding the mat that’s right for you will help ensure you have a safe, fun, and non-slippery yoga experience. When you’re ready for a new yoga workout with your new mat, be sure to check out our library of at-home yoga workouts on Get Healthy U TV!
  
  READ THIS NEXT: The Beginner’s Guide To Yoga"