"If you want to tone your glutes, you may already be doing squats, lunges, or other bodyweight moves. But if you really want to build a better butt, you should be using resistance bands. I’m a huge fan of resistance bands because they are easy to use at home, the office, or on the road. Bands offer the same benefits of other resistance equipment without being big and heavy. Even better, bands can offer more muscle recruitment because you can use multiple muscle groups at once. If you want to lift and firm up your backside, try these 4 resistance band moves that work your glutes.
  The Resistance Band Butt Workout
  How do you choose the correct resistance band? You should reach moderate to maximum muscle fatigue between 15-20 repetitions. If your band is too easy, you’ll know. If it’s too hard, you won’t be able to complete the full range of motion. If you’re new to resistance bands, I’d recommend this C9 Comfort Grip Resistance Band from Target! The handles are padded and the resistance level is great for beginners to intermediate.
  Let’s get to the workout! For each of the 4 moves below, perform 2-3 sets of 15-20 repetitions of each, 3-5 days a week. Give this workout a try and “Bottoms Up!”
  Basic Squat
  Stand on resistance band with feet hip-width apart, holding band behind the back of your arms. Slowly lower into a seated position, pushing your glutes behind you and putting the weight into your heels. Now just as slowly, begin to return to starting position making sure to squeeze your buns as you come up. Keep your abdominals tight throughout the move and your spine long; do not bend forward.Lunge With Bonus Bicep Curl
  Place the ball of your right foot on the band while holding the handles in front of your thighs; palms up. Step the ball of the left foot behind you keeping the heel off the floor. Slowly lower the back knee down until the front knee forms a 90 degree angle. Now press through the front heel while lifting your body back up to the starting position. Keep the spine tall throughout the move. BONUS: As you lower down, perform a bicep curl with the band. Do lunges on each side.
  
  Related: 14 Days To A Better Butt Challenge
  Deadlift
  Stand with the balls of both feet on the band about hip distance apart. Keeping your abdominals tight and spine long, hinge slightly forward. Bend your elbows and hold the handles close to your body. Keeping your torso straight, slowly lower down reaching handles of the band toward the ground. One your back is parallel with the floor, squeeze your glutes and hamstrings as you return to starting position.Straight Leg Glute Squeeze
  Place the center of your feet on the band, hip-width apart and hold the handles next to your hip bones. Stand tall, tighten your abdominals and press your right leg out diagonally behind you keeping your leg straight. Press through the outside of your heel. Press several times on the right leg and then switch to the left. Or alternate legs!
  
  Are you a resistance band fan? What are your favorite moves? Share below!
  READ THIS NEXT: How To Build A Better Butt"