"Peanut butter and jelly are amazing together. (Wine and chocolate isn’t a bad combo either…) So when it comes to workouts, tabata intervals and isometric holds are the powerful duo that will kick you in the butt and shrink it a little at the same time! By combining the heart-pumping quality of fast, tabata intervals with the power of holding an exercise in place while your muscles are shaking, you can maximize your time spent working out and minimize the amount of time you need to put in!
  In this challenge you will want to warm up with a light jog for a minute and then go through five simple exercises all in the same way:
  1.  Power through the exercise as intensely as you can for 20 seconds.
  2.  Immediately go to the isometric hold indicated for 10 seconds.
  3.  Do 8 rounds total per exercise and then move to the next one.
  Boom! In 20 minutes you have burned more calories than a light jog for an hour. Now that’s what I call a bargain. Don’t forget to stretch when you are finished catching your breath.
  Squat Jump
  
  A) Start standing with feet hip distance apart and lower into a squat position by bending the knees. Keep the spine straight, chest lifted, and knees behind toes. Arms are in front of the chest for balance.
  B) Jump straight up and swing arms overhead. Return to squat.
  Jump squat for 20 seconds, then immediately hold a squat for 10 seconds. Repeat for 8 total cycles.
  Core Body Hops
  
  A) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists, feet together, and your body in a straight line.
  B) From this position, bend your knees and hop both feet to your left, keeping your feet together.
  C) Hop back to center and then to the right.
  Perform for 20 seconds, then immediately hold plank for 10 seconds. Repeat for 8 total cycles.
  Glute Bridge
  
  A) Lie on back with bent knees hip distance apart, and feet flat on mat stacked under the knees.
  B) Engage the core and squeeze your glutes as you lift your hips to a bridge and then lower with control.
  Lift and lower for 20 seconds, then immediately hold the bridge for 10 seconds.  Repeat for 8 total cycles.
  Mountain Climbers
  
  A) Start in a plank position with arms and legs long. B) Draw in your abdominals and drive one knee into the chest then switch legs quickly.
  Mountain climb for 20 seconds, then immediately hold plank for 10 seconds.  Repeat for 8 total cycles.
  V-Ups
  
  A) Lie on your back and extend your arms behind your head. Keep your feet together and toes pointed.
  B) Keep your legs straight and lift them up as you simultaneously raise your upper body off the floor. Keep your core tight as you reach for your toes with your hands. Slowly lower yourself back down to the starting position.
  C) If two legs becomes too difficult, try lifting one leg at a time.
  Perform for 20 seconds then immediately hold “V” for 10 seconds. Repeat for 8 total cycles.
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 10-Minute Beginner Tabata Workout"