"This post is sponsored by Wahl Wellness. All opinions are my own.
  Have you convinced yourself that coffee is the only thing that can wake you up in the morning? You’re not alone.
  In fact, statistics show that coffee drinkers in the U.S. average 3.1 cups of coffee per day. However, the problem with coffee and energy drinks is that they’re only a temporary, and often unhealthy fix when they becomes a dependency.
  Luckily, there are other ways to improve your get-up-and-go, as shocking as it may sound to you venti-drinkers. Instead of looking in your coffee mug, try these five tips for long-term, caffeine-free energy.Relieve Body Tension & Pain with Massage
  
  
  
  You may or may not be surprised to hear this, but body tension and pain can actually lead to lower energy levels and fatigue. When you live in a continual state of discomfort, your body becomes drained and isn’t able to perform at its best.
  However, managing and alleviating that tension and pain through massage actually aids blood flow and increases the delivery of oxygen to your cells giving you more energy. Your body is also able to detoxify itself more readily which leads to better function and less fatigue.
  One of the most powerful handheld massagers on the market I like to use is the Wahl Deep Tissue Massager. In addition to relieving tension, massage can help reduce pain, decrease swelling and improve blood circulation to promote the healing of soft-tissue damage, bruising and muscle fatigue. It also helps improve flexibility and mobility faster, while reducing overall stiffness.
  And honestly, if a massage is going to give me more energy, you don’t have to twist my arm.Pay Attention to Your PlateFood is our body’s primary source of energy, specifically macronutrients, i.e. carbohydrates, protein and fat. The problem is that not all foods are created equal.
  The biggest health decision you make every day is what you put in your mouth, so don’t take this decision lightly. If you’re energy is waning, it may be time to consider what you’re eating.
  Processed foods, refined carbs and sugars may give you an immediate spike of energy but then eventually lead to a crash, plus they have little to no nutritional value. For sustainable, long-lasting energy, look to foods like whole grains, fruit, vegetables, nuts and lean protein which contain a wide variety of vitamins to keep you energized.
  So the next time that 3 p.m. slump hits you, consider a healthy snack like an apple with peanut butter instead of a bag of chips for a pick-me-up. Try it for a week and see if you feel any better (I know you will).
  Related: The Best and Worst Foods To Fight FatigueStick With An Exercise RegimenHave you ever woken up feeling exhausted but then once you started working out, you began to feel more energized and ready for the day? Well, that’s because exercise gives you energy.
  This may seem a bit contradictory and we’re not saying that after a 45-minute sweat session you’re not going to want to take a break, but working out increases blood flow and releases endorphins which up your energy level and increase your stamina.
  Sticking with an exercise regimen is a great way to keep your energy levels high over the long term. And while the time of day that you exercise doesn’t matter performance-wise, morning exercisers are typically more consistent and are able to experience those feel-good endorphins for the rest of the day.Regulate Your Sleep Schedule
  
  
  
  When it comes to energy, maintaining a quality sleep schedule is a no-brainer. If you survive on five hours of sleep or less per night, you’re likely to feel drained during the day. And while you may have convinced yourself that you just don’t need as much sleep as others, your body feels differently.
  Creating a consistent sleep schedule with relatively the same sleep and wake times helps your body to create a rhythm and be able to sustain energy throughout the day. This means getting seven to nine hours of sleep per night for most healthy adults.
  Struggling to get enough? Make sure to create a sleep-friendly environment and try these other tips.Drink WaterThere’s not much that drinking water can’t do, and increasing energy is definitely one of those benefits. Dehydration is one of the biggest culprits when it comes to feeling drained and fatigued.
  But on the opposite side, keeping your water levels in check allows your body to perform most efficiently. For me, I’ve seen a direct correlation between drinking more water and having a higher energy level.
  And make sure you’re drinking plenty of water in your workouts. Healthy electrolyte drinks that include sodium, potassium, magnesium, and B vitamins are a great option too.
  Here’s a tip: if drinking water is a struggle for you, try our awesome hack that is sure to keep you hydrated.
  Ready to skip that morning cup of joe? Try one or all of these tips and see your energy levels skyrocket naturally.
  READ THIS NEXT: 4 Reasons You Need More Massage In Your Life"