"When you’re trying to eat healthfully, every choice you make is intentional. And by the time dinner has settled, all you want is to round out your day with something sweet.
  If you’ve been watching your calorie intake all day long, then you’re surely trying to be careful not to exceed your limit with a decadent dessert, but depriving yourself entirely may lead to disaster down the road.
  Indulging in a small, sweet treat may just help you ward off binge eating later —just opt for these healthy desserts all under 100 calories to keep you satisfied.
  1. Nutella Fudge Pops by Chocolate Covered Katie
  
  On a hot summer night when baking is out of the question, these are the go-to option.
  The recipe requires healthy and simple ingredients like banana, cocoa powder, Nutella and vanilla extract.
  All you have to do is blend up all the ingredients, scoop into popsicle molds and freeze for fudgsicles.
  2. Pomegranate and Pistachio Frozen Yogurt Bark by Emily Bites
  
  This healthy and innovative recipe idea is super easy and only takes three ingredients to make.
  The combination of sweet and salty is sure to satisfy your post-dinner craving for one last daily indulgence. Just make sure to serve the bark right out of the freezer so it doesn’t melt.
  Each serving is a mere 91 calories, so you won’t feel guilty about biting into this bark.
  3. Nutella Chocolate Chip Blondies by Chocolate Covered Katie
  
  This scrumptious recipe uses healthy, protein-packed chickpeas and rolled oats as the base, along with other delightful ingredients like chocolate chips and Nutella. They’re oil-free and full of flavor, coming in at only 60 calories each.
  Related: 11 Best Foods For Weight Loss
  4. Healthy Peanut Butter Fudge by Chocolate Covered Katie
  
  At just 56 calories a square, you certainly won’t worry about enjoying these heavenly squares.
  Featuring a basic ingredient list of peanut butter, banana, pure vanilla extract, salt, coconut butter and a pinch of stevia, they’re simply delicious and super easy to whip up.
  5. Frozen Peach Parfait Cups by Get Healthy U
  
  At 99 calories each, these fruity cups of perfection are complete with honey Greek yogurt and fresh peaches. They also feature a graham cracker crust that’ll give you the crunch you can’t resist.
  Try out different yogurt and fruit combinations to please everyone’s palates in your home. The recipe is super simple, too, taking under 10 minutes to make.
  6. 5 Minute Microwave Chocolate Truffles by Chocolate Covered Katie
  
  These truly yummy truffles are only 38 calories each, and require such simple ingredients to make.
  With a prep time of five minutes, all you have to do is let these babies cool in the freezer for 40 minutes, and then scoop out into truffle shapes with a mini cookie scoop.
  7. 100 Calorie Raspberry Chocolate Chip Protein Brownies by Chocolate Covered Katie
  
  Low in carbs, low in sugar and high in protein, these brownies double as a dessert AND a post-workout snack.
  Featuring a deliciously decadent, extra-fudgy texture you just can’t say no to this guilt-free recipe.
  8.  Vegan Almond Butter Cups by PopSugar
  
  Now this is the sweet treat that will satisfy the chocolate lover’s tooth anytime of day.
  Using simple yet sensational ingredients like dairy-free dark chocolate chips, almond butter, maple syrup and sliced almonds, you’ll enjoy a creamy, crunchy, chocolaty bite of goodness with this healthy recipe that comes in at only 86 calories per cup.
  9. Coffee Cream Brownie Bites by Chocolate Covered Katie
  
  Simple, elegant and only 68 calories per piece, these coffee cream brownie bites are to die for.
  The brownie cups are made with some seriously good for you ingredients, like raw almonds, pitted dates, raw walnuts and cacao powder, while the mousse is made with even more yummy and healthy foods like raw cashews and banana.
  READ THIS NEXT: 11 Dinner Recipes Under 400 Calories"