"With the colder months ahead and fall in full force, there’s no doubt your desire to hit the coffee shop is revved up right now. But as enticing and festive as many of these seasonal treats can be (pumpkin spice latte anyone?) most of them are incredibly high in calories, laden with sugars and filled with chemical-packed syrups. And all those delicious, warm and gooey pastries and muffins calling your name while you wait for your morning jolt of brew? Those are pretty bad for you too. But, just because we’ve put many popular choices in the no-zone, that doesn’t mean your food favorites have to be put to rest. We’ve got you covered with seven easy-to-make coffee shop swaps that are much better for you, full of simple and healthy ingredients, and will actually give you the energy you need to power through your day as opposed to send you into a sugar crash.
  
  Pumpkin Cream Cheese Bread with Candied Cinnamon Pecans
  
  
  Nothing says fall like yummy pumpkin goodies. Carving them, decorating the house with them, eating them, and drinking coffee flavored with its goodness is something many of us look forward to. But before you order up the pumpkin bread at Starbucks, try out this recipe. It’s made with white whole wheat flour, has a cream cheese layer, and is topped with candied pecans. Yum!
  Related: 33 Yummy Pumpkin Recipes
  
  Healthy Pumpkin Spice Latte
  
  
  Pumpkin spice lattes have become such a seasonal staple that you’d be hard-pressed to find someone who doesn’t know what you mean when you order up a “PSL.” Coffee shops adhere to people’s overwhelming desire for this fall favorite, but they’re usually ridden with high fructose corn syrup, calories, caramel coloring and artificial flavors. This healthy alternative will knock your socks off, made with REAL pumpkin, pumpkin pie spice, almond milk, agave, espresso and pure vanilla extract.
  
  Coconut Oil Zucchini Bread
  
  
  Getting your veggie fill while curbing your sweet tooth is a win-win. This tasty and healthy coconut oil zucchini bread is made with shredded zucchini, white whole wheat flour, coconut sugar, cinnamon and applesauce. The result is a moist comfort food that will make you forgo the packaged and processed options for good.
  
  Muffin In A Minute
  
  
  No matter what name you put in front of muffin — be it blueberry, banana, bran or nut — the truth is, most of the popular store-bought and coffee shop options are packed with added sugars among other nasty things. This muffin, however, is full of fantastic ingredients that will give you a boost of energy, a healthy dose of vitamins and minerals, and still give you that sweet taste you desire.
  
  Healthy Whole Grain Carrot Coconut Morning Glory Muffins
  
  
  Steer clear of a calorie overload with this morning glory muffin recipe. There are so many healthy and heavenly ingredients in here, including ground cinnamon, ground ginger, nutmeg, vanilla extract, shredded carrots, unsweetened almond milk, unsweetened applesauce, unsweetened shredded coconut, raisins and chopped walnuts.
  
  Healthy Maple Sea Salt Hot Chocolate
  
  
  Warming your hands and your heart with a hot cup of chocolate is something to look forward to come the colder months. This healthy maple sea salt hot chocolate recipe is made with just five ingredients, which, let’s be real, if you were to ask for all the ingredients in your coffee shop order, you might be surprised to find many of them aren’t even real food! This delicious drink is dairy free to boot. Top it with coconut whipped cream, chocolate shavings, and a touch of sea salt to jazz up a typical cup.
  
  Healthy Starbucks Frappuccino
  
  
  Frappuccinos are known for their high calorie load, making them nothing short of a guilty pleasure. This healthy options, however, offers no additives or preservatives, zero grams of sugar and has only 45 calories, which is a whopping 25 percent less than that of a regular Starbucks frappuccino.
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 5 High-Calorie Drink Disasters To Avoid"