"Whether you’re a vegetarian, looking for a new recipe for Meatless Monday, or just in need of a change-up in your meat-heavy lifestyle, there are plenty of delicious recipes to inspire you to enjoy a vegetarian dinner at home. Many people have the misconception that cooking—especially healthy, wholesome meals—is time-consuming, but the following recipes prove that wrong. Rich in flavor, boasting an array of good-for-you ingredients, requiring basic prep skills and ready in a flash, you’ll be enjoying these 11 vegetarian recipes even on the busiest of nights.
  1. Chickpea Curry with Cauliflower Rice by LaaLoosh
  
  Cauliflower has become wildly popular in recent months for its ability to replace starchy vegetables with a similar texture with a multitude of health benefits. This chickpea curry recipe takes just 30 minutes to make and is full of flavor and spices. The curry is vegan, gluten free and dairy free while the chickpeas serve as your source of plant-based protein with an added dose of fiber.
  2. Healthy Lentil And Mushroom Veggie Burgers by The Healthy Maven
  
  Veggie burgers are the perfect replacement for the standard meaty variety. The lentils and mushroom provide a sensational hearty texture plus, it’s topped with arugula for crunch and goat cheese for a layer of creamy goodness. This recipe makes for a perfect vegetarian meal for friends and family.
  Related: 8 Beef-Free Burgers That Will Blow Your Mind
  3. Kale, Lemon, and White Bean Pasta by Slender Kitchen
  
  This dish is a gourmet masterpiece that utilizes simple ingredients with elevated flavors, and the best part is…it takes only 25 minutes to make! Kale is such a versatile ingredient packed with nutrition. White beans provide you a hearty helping of protein and fiber, while the roasted red peppers and veggies, lemon juice, garlic and Parmesan cheese really round out the depth of the dish.
  4. Summer Squash Pasta by Get Healthy U
  
  Chinese takeout is all kinds of yum, but it’s certainly not doing your health any favors. Cauliflower makes another star appearance in this deliciously sweet and tangy dish that will have you second-guessing if something so good can really be vegan, paleo and nutrient-rich too.
  5. Healthy Quinoa Nachos by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  Whether you’re exhausted from work and can’t muster up the energy for a real meal or you simply want something light, these nachos are your go-to option. A healthier version of traditional nachos, they’re packed with healthy, fresh and filling ingredients like quinoa, tomatoes, onions, cilantro and corn all topped with goat cheese. Plus, it only takes 10 minutes tops!
  6. Low Carb Cauliflower Fried “Rice” by Slender Kitchen
  
  Fried rice doesn’t get healthier than this version. Using cauliflower as a replacement for the starchy stuff, this low-carb recipe is packed with flavor that won’t make you miss the traditional version, and it’ll only eat up 20 minutes of your time.
  7. Slow Cooker Lentil Sloppy Joes over Spaghetti Squash by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  Even though this takes 4 hours in the slow cooker, this recipe for lentil sloppy joes over spaghetti squash is super easy to throw together. Plus, you’ll love the leftovers (if there are any!).
  8. Avocado Egg Salad Toasts by Get Healthy U
  
  Avoid a hefty clean-up with this one-pot dish that takes just 25 minutes from start to finish. All of the ingredients, from the dried pasta to the veggies and seasonings go into one big pot brought to a boil and tossed around while it bubbles and cooks quickly over high heat. While the hands-on time is fairly constant, you’ll save yourself valuable time that you can use to savor your meal slowly.
  9. Smashed Avocado, Roasted Bell Pepper & Pepper Jack Quesadillas by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  These tasty and easy quesadillas opt for a sprouted grain tortilla rather than the traditional white flour, which can quickly convert starch into glucose. Rich and savory flavors come in the form of creamy avocado, roasted bell pepper and pepper jack cheese for a little kick.
  10. Easy Gluten-Free Margherita Pizza by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  Making homemade pizza is quite the feat from the dough to the sauce to the toppings and the time spent in the oven—and nevermind the mess it entails! When you want something quick, healthy and vegetarian-friendly, this easy pizza is perfect, since it only takes 20 minutes to make and utilizes just a few key ingredients.
  11. Thai Basil Veggie Stir Fry by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  Packed with fresh flavors thanks to the array of vegetables and good-for-you ginger, this is a must-try quick meal you’ll love. Featuring garbanzo beans for your vegetarian protein, it’s a Meatless Monday bite of perfection.
  
  
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 9 Flat-Belly Lunch Recipes Under 300 Calories"