"Father’s Day is fast approaching, and if you’re like us, you might have left gift shopping until the last minute.
  (Why does it always creep up so quickly each year?)
  Regardless, we’re here to help you find a thoughtful gift for dad that he’ll love—and if you have an Amazon account it can be here by the weekend!
  If your dad is a fan of anything fitness or health-related, he’s going to love these 11 gadgets and gifts this summer and all year round.
  Here are our favorite gifts to thank your dad for all he does for you and give him the gift of health (and fun!) no matter your budget.
  
  #1. FitBit, $119.99.
  If your dad doesn’t have a FitBit yet, there’s no time like the present to get him tracking his steps and daily activity levels!
  A FitBit or other tracking device is a great way to challenge yourself and set new fitness goals as you go. With this sleek wristband, dad will be able to track steps, distance, calories burned and active minutes each day.
  It can also track how long and how well he sleeps and can be personalized with interchangeable metal, leather and classic bands.
  #2. Mr. Spice- Honey BBQ Sauce, $10.99.
  This is a perfect gift for any Dad who loves saucing up his own meals!!
  This Honey BBQ sauce is salt free, fat free, dairy free, wheat free, gluten free and does not contain cholesterol, preservatives, sulfites, or high fructose corn syrup!!!
  It’s jam-packed with honey and yummy spices.
  #3. Grilling Cookbook, $20.98
  A cookbook is a perfect gift for your favorite grill master! This cookbook is available as a hardcopy or a download.
  It features 70+ delicious recipes like dry ribs from Memphis, or pork steak from St. Louis.
  Author, Michael Symon, offers his expertise and guidance on mastering the perfect American barbecue on a variety of grills.
  #4. Bose Wireless Headphones, $349.00
  This is a great gift for Dad to use while he’s mowing the lawn, working out at the gym, traveling across the country, or simply relaxing at home!!
  Bose wireless headphones are noise canceling with a dual-microphone system so Dad can still answer his conference calls, or ask Siri a question!
  One charge will last 20 hours of play time in wireless mode.
  #5. Kabob Skewer Baskets, $19.66
  A fun grilling accessory for Dads to try this summer! Say hasta la vista to wooden skewers!!!!
  The kabob grilling baskets make for an easy and seamless grilling experience. They make the perfect gift for Dad!!
  #6. Himalayan Salt Plank, $29.99
  Looking for a unique gift for Dad? Get this Himalayan salt plank. It adds a delicious flavor to Dad’s favorite dishes!
  He can heat it on the grill to sear seafood and meat, or he can chill it and use for a fruit, veggie, or cheese plater!
  #7. Balance Ball Chair, $69.98
  Does Dad do a lot of sitting at work? Then he might be interested in an alternative option to the dangers of sitting.
  A balance ball chair provides all-day ergonomic support for a stronger healthier back. By sitting on the ball, he’ll improve his posture and spinal alignment while getting a core-strengthening workout.
  #8. Yoga Mat, $17.99
  Calling all yogi dads! These lightweight, non-slip yoga mats come in a variety of colors and sizes, and are easy for pops to tote to his classes.
  These mats are also great for high impact exercises or other stretching/training. He can keep one in his office for stretch breaks or take it to the gym for some vinyasa.
  #9. Leather Toiletry Bag, $34.95
  We love the idea of using a toiletry bag to store shampoo, body wash, and cologne bottles for an after-gym refresher!
  The leather adds a masculine, yet fashionable, touch!
  #10. Yeti Rambler, $34.99
  If your Dad is into the outdoors (or just into staying hydrated!) give him the gift of this Yeti Rambler.
  It keeps beverages hot or cold for hours, so he can stay cool while camping or use it as a thermos for tea and coffee. Plus, they’re seriously trendy right now!!
  #11. Paddle Board, $393.09
  A paddle board is a great gift for the Dad who loves to get out in the water and paddle into the sunset!
  Paddle boarding can actually be a great workout too, providing an ab and balance challenge in addition to just being a fun way to get around the lake. While they’re a little on the spendy side, it’s a fun investment you and your family can use for years.
  This ISLE paddle board is lightweight, portable and will look great out on the open water.
  #12. Bike Helmet, $22.98
  The best gift for an active dad? Something that keeps him safe and stylish.
  The lightweight Kali Protectives Chakra PLUS Helmet has merged the helmet shell and foam which makes for a thinner shell and reduces the helmet weight. It will keep dad comfy and safe while he bikes around town.
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 8 Beef-Free Burgers That Will Blow Your Mind
  Save"