"How to debloat fast? It’s not with teas or tricks. It’s through whole foods, hydration, and smart choices. In this guide, we’re sharing how to debloat fast– without scams or quick fixes. Just science-backed tips from a certified trainer. 
  Instead of turning to gimmicky supplements and products, starting with the food you’re putting into your body is a great way to debloat and fight this annoying phenomenon and avoid future bloating. 
  Lucky for all of us, there are tons of delicious, readily available, belly bloat fighting foods.
  
  Bloating vs. fat – learn the basics.
  What is Bloating?
  First, let’s dig into what bloating actually is so we can learn how to debloat fast. Being bloated is completely different from actually gaining weight.
  The scientific definition of bloating by the Journal of Neurogastroenterology and Motility is:
  Bloating is defined as subjective discomfort by the patient’s sensation of intestinal gas; otherwise, abdominal distension is a visible increase in abdominal girth. 
  Just because your stomach is bloated that doesn’t mean you’ve gained belly fat, it might just mean you’ve eaten something that caused an inflammatory response that is (most often) causing an increase in gas in your abdomen. 
  What Causes Bloating?
  Some people experience bloating as a reaction to certain types of food, like dairy. 
  Listening to your body and taking note of what you’re eating when you feel bloated is key to figuring out which foods might irritate your system. 
  Some people experience bloating as a result of eating too much or eating too quickly. 
  Whatever the reason for your bloating, there are plenty of healthy foods (that also taste great!) that help reduce and prevent bloating.
  If you’re looking for a solution to bloating and want to eat something today that will help you look and feel better by tomorrow, you’re in the right place. 
  This is our list of the BEST foods (and drinks!) to fight bloat!
  Ways to Debloat in 24 Hours
  More Water, No Salty Foods
  If you want to reduce bloating in a day, the only beverage you should drink is water and lots of it.
  Though it may seem counterintuitive, the more water you drink, the better. And it’s not just about the amount of water you drink, but when.
  Water helps to flush out toxins and waste from your body through urination so drinking more fluids will help with digestion. It helps to nix the effects of those salty foods, too.
  Drinking lots of liquids actually makes you feel full because there is less room for food in your stomach as well which can lead to decreased bloating.
  If you’re trying to debloat quickly, drinking water is a quick and easy way to do it.
  Take a Break From Carbs – For a Day or Two
  Contrary to popular belief carbs are not your enemy, they are an essential fuel source for your body.
  But carbs are more of a double-edged sword because they bind with water more than anything – which is good for glycogen storage, but bad news when it comes to bloating.
  Carbs increase the fluid retention in your body and can make you feel bloated.
  However, to de-bloat, you can reduce carbohydrates for about a day or two and make the basis of your diet greens and lean proteins.
  Pay Attention to Chewing
  Bloating can actually be caused by the way you chew. If you chew too quickly you swallow more air – causing bloat.
  Instead of chatting while eating, make a conscious effort to eat slowly (chewing your food will increase digestion and satisfaction), and only talk in between bites.
  Unwind with Yoga
  Yoga is one of the best forms of exercise because it is a low-impact, relaxing activity. When we feel stressed our bodies release cortisol, the hormone responsible for regulating blood pressure and sugar levels in the body.
  Too much cortisol can lead to problems. When cortisol is present the body reacts by releasing water and sodium which contribute to bloatedness.
  Yoga helps to reduce cortisol. Yoga is also a great activity because it calms your mind so that stress doesn’t lead to those hormonal changes, digestive distress, sleep issues, or weight gain.
  The Best Bloat Fighting Foods (And Drinks)
  1. Water
  
  The amount of water you drink in a day is one of the most important aspects your overall health. If you aren’t drinking enough water, it’s likely contributing to your bloatedness. 
  Contrary to popular belief about water causing bloating, when you’re not drinking ENOUGH water, your body beings to desperately retain water, making you bloated. 
  A study found that increased water intake in animals was correlated with increased fat burn. 
  Additionally, drinking water prevents constipation. And it might be obvious, but the more salty foods you ingest, the more water you need to drink.
  2. Green Melon & Watermelon
  
  If you’re retaining water, snack on some melon! It helps flush out excess water from your system and because it’s loaded with potassium, it acts as a natural electrolyte! 
  3. Green Tea
  
  Green tea has been an ancient debloat secret for centuries. 
  Green tea has been proven to be able to debloat, aid in digestion, and quell the symptoms of gas and discomfort. 
  Not only that but drinking green tea can help you avoid sugary, caffeinated soft drinks, which themselves are often a source of stomach trouble.
  4. Carrots
  
  Carrots are very high in fiber and potassium and can help kick your digestive system into gear. Carrots are full of antioxidants which helps with vision and promotes gut health, and wards off bloating. 
  5. Onions
  
  Onions can help gastrointestinal issues and also kick your digestive system into gear. 
  6. Apple Cider Vinegar
  
  Apple cider vinegar is known to speed up digestion and help your body regulate gas and digestive distress. Though the taste is something you’ll likely need to get used to, we recommend mixing a tablespoon with 8 ounces of water! 
  Drinking ACV straight may cause problems with your tooth enamel and intestines. 
  7. Cranberries
  
  Cranberries are a fantastic diuretic and can help flush your system. Pure cranberry juice is a great way to incorporate cranberries into your diet, but avoid the cranberry cocktail juices that are loaded with sugar!
  8. Kiwi
  
  Kiwi is high in fiber and hydrating and can help kick your bowels into gear. Kiwis can help ease IBS and reduce constipation. 
  9. Pineapple
  
  Pineapples, similar to kiwis, are high in fiber and are hydrating. They have been known to reduce belly bloat and colonic inflammation. 
  Throw some pineapple into your next smoothie bowl!
  10. Lemon 
  
  Lemons are a phenomenal diuretic. People believe in their ability to aid weight loss, which is likely due to their ability to reduce digestion issues too. They are known to reduce inflammation and give you a little antioxidant boost.
  The easiest way to incorporate lemons into your diet? Sip on lemon water!
  11. Eggs
  
  Eggs are a protein-rich way to start your morning without contributing to more digestion issues the way bread-based breakfasts can.
  12. Ginger
  
  Ginger has become a standard go-to for helping to fight an upset stomach, and for good reason. It’s a very powerful anti-inflammatory that helps debloat.
  
  Not sure how to incorporate ginger into your day? Try a smoothie like this one!
  13. Cucumber
  
  Cucumbers are super hydrating while helping to fight leaky gut issues and inflammation! Plus cucumbers help you reach your fiber intake which is another key to help with gas. 
  14. Asparagus
  
  Asparagus is loaded with prebiotics and probiotics, helping to balance out your gut bacteria and avoid weight gain and bloat.
  15. Turmeric
  
  Turmeric is a major anti-inflammatory that can help calm IBS and any related symptoms. Turmeric is such a superhero it has been shown to help with metabolic syndrome, arthritis, and even anxiety. Studies show that it’s best when combined with agents such as piperine. Turmeric gummies are the latest trend and we think they’re a great way to debloat the easy way!
  16. Celery 
  
  Celery is loaded with fiber and potassium, both of which help to combat bloat issues and ease water retention while kicking your GI system into gear! 
  17. Banana
  
  As you probably know, bananas are LOADED with potassium, giving them a mild diuretic effect. This helps clean out your system.
  Bananas are also super easy to incorporate into your diet! How about some banana nice cream, banana nut oatmeal or a creamy cashew banana smoothie? YUM!
  18. Kimchi
  
  Kimchi is a fermented food, which causes it to act as an anti-inflammatory probiotic. You’ve probably heard people buzzing about fermented foods lately, and there’s GOOD reason! 
  19. Artichoke
  
  Like many others on this list, artichokes are high in fiber and potassium, helping you to fill up while also helping to clean out your system. 
  We highly recommend you up your fiber intake with this spinach artichoke grilled cheese recipe!
  20. Fennel
  
  Fennel seeds can help relax your GI system and reduce gassiness that contributes to bloat. 
  If your stomach is bloated and gassy, then snacking on some fennel seeds or sipping on fennel tea can help.
  Related: What Is The Best Digestive Health Product For You?
  21. Avocado
  
  Being high in healthy fat, avocados can help prevent bloatedness, while the high potassium content can have a diuretic effect. 
  Trust us, once you start eating avocados, you won’t be able to stop! 
  For recipes and tips on how to incorporate avos into your daily life, click here!
  22. Olive Oil 
  
  Because of olive oil’s high content of omega-3 fatty acids, it acts as an anti-inflammatory and helps get rid of bloat quickly. 
  It’s a super healthy MUFA! (Not sure what a MUFA is? Don’t worry, we’ve got you! Check out our article all about MUFAs here!)
  23. Garlic
  
  Garlic is a prebiotic that helps keep your gut healthy and your intestines working properly.
   It might make your breath smell, but it will help you beat bloat!
  24. Almonds
  
  Almonds are packed with fiber, protein, and prebiotics, causing them to be a fantastic aid when you’re trying to de bloat. 
  Snack on a few nuts and you’ll feel the difference!
  25. Pumpkin 
  
  If you’re a fan of Get Healthy U, you know we LOVE pumpkin (even when it isn’t Halloween!). 
  Pumpkin is packed with prebiotics and helps reduce painful gas, and inflammation. Lucky for you, we have TONS of pumpkin recipes here!
  26. Dark Chocolate
  
  When you get dark chocolate that has 70% cacao or higher, it can have a probiotic effect on your body and fight inflammation, and therefore help de bloat! 
  The key is keeping an eye on the cacao percentage, as anything lower than 70% is not likely to have this effect. If you’ve got a sweet tooth, this makes a great late-night snack! 
  27. Mint
  
  One Mint tea is a common way to settle an upset stomach because it acts as an anti-inflammatory and helps ease gastrointestinal discomfort, which oftentimes comes with bloating as a symptom. 
  Try this DELICIOUS cucumber mint smoothie!
  28. Apples
  
  Apples are also very high in fiber, helping to cleanse your system when you’re feeling in need of a reset. You’ll love this baked apple yogurt recipe!
  29. Oats
  
  Oats have a great probiotic effect and are super helpful at aiding your gut health, inevitably fighting bloat and fighting water retention.
  
  READ THIS NEXT: Do Bananas Make You Fat?"