"We wish we could take a leisurely shower, blow dry our hair, and change into a fabulous new outfit after every workout, but the truth of the matter is, we rarely have the time. The good news? We’ve found new ways to pair our favorite workout staples (leggings, tops and running shoes, to start) with fall’s best cozy layers and eye-catching accessories that can take us from the yoga studio to happy hour in no time flat. By starting with some workout basics in fun colors, transitioning from your workouts to the rest of your life doesn’t have to be difficult. Here are some easy ways to still look polished and put together this fall after even the most intense workout:
  
  From the studio to the streets, here are our favorite activewear outfits for fall!
  1. From Barre to Bar
  Delicate ballet flats feel right at home next to get-down-to-business midnight blue leggings. Pair with a sweat-wicking workout top for an outfit that will help you tackle tricky barre moves with confidence. Throw on a cotton cardigan that has the perfect taste of comfort and style! No pockets? No problem!! You don’t have to lug around a huge tote to hold your belongings. Try a crossbody phone case wallet for your phone, ID, and credit cards! This outfit is the perfect transition into happy hour with friends.
  Outfit details
  Cardigan- $24.95
  Leggings- $14.99
  Phone case wallet- $12.99
  Related: How To Start Your Fall Fitness Makeover
  2. From Spinning To Shopping
  A sweat-inducing spin class calls for wicking fabrics and a solid pair of shoes! We’ve got you covered with these trendy leggings, and black, fly-knit shoes! After you’re done, pair your spin leggings with a half zip pullover to keep a chic post-workout look.
  Outfit details
  Half-zip pullover- $30.20
  Leggings- $49.37
  Shoes- $119.95
  3. From Yoga to Your Office
  Get your savasana on with stretchy graphic leggings and a plain white T. After yoga, throw on a pair of dress pants designed with stretch fabric to make it feel like you’re still in practice! Pair with a stylish blazer and heels for the perfect look that easily transitions from yoga to your office to happy hour. A fun, burgundy bag adds a pop of color and a touch of autumn.
  Outfit details
  Blazer- $21
  Trousers- $34.99
  Tote bag- $39.99
  4. From Running Laps To Running Errands
  You want body-hugging clothes that stay in place while you run, but that doesn’t mean your outfit has to suffer. Invest in some fun leggings that you’ll want to wear long past your workout, then throw on a cozy sweatshirt to ward off the cold of fall. A pair of trendy sneakers brings the look together!
  Outfit details
  Sweatshirt- $23.99
  Leggings- $85.00
  Shoes- $85.00
  5. From Trail To Travel
  We get it: we want to get our workouts in, too, before we travel by plane, train or automobile. After all, traveling often requires sitting for hours on end. But, before you sit your butt down, hit the trail for a quick workout in these fabulous airbrushed leggings and a plain tee. Before you hit the runway- slip on a pair of booties and throw on a fun, patterned wrap that you can layer on and off as you travel.
  Outfit details
  Wrap- $20.80
  Leggings- $102.00
  Booties- $35.00 
  READ THIS NEXT: The Best Post-Workout Beauty Products"