"Tights and capris and spandex, oh, my! I have a serious love affair with leggings. Some girls have a high-heel obsession, but I’m all about the lower body spandex, baby! When I’m teaching a fitness class, I prefer leggings or tights to shorts (better butt coverage!). When I’m out and about, I wear a pair with a long sleeve shirt, a puffy vest, and a cute pair of boots. Even though I’m technically wearing gym clothes, I don’t scream “gym rat.” Leggings have come a long way from just being sporty and comfortable; they are super cute and majorly in style. And if you don’t think you can pull off a legging, wrong! Every body type can rock a good tight in AND outside of the gym! Go bold, have fun, and be crazy. If you don’t think you can wear stripes or pattern–yes you can! As a matter of fact, a bold pattern actually camouflages and minimizes! Ready to get your legging love on? Here are 10 fun and functional styles (aka you’re not constantly pulling them up) to rock this winter!
  Blue Python Legging | Primsport
  
  Scared of snakes? That’s understandable. Scared to rock snakeskin leggings? Don’t be. These fierce leggings are on trend and have an amazing seamless front that stops any weird bunching at the crotch (you know exactly what we mean!). Bonus: They’re reversible!
  
  Velo Black Legging with Perforated Mesh Trim | Primsport 
  These leggings are the perfect pant for those chilly morning runs. The cold weather doesn’t need to keep you indoors! Try out these super-soft, super-cute Primsport Velocity Leggings. They have a wide reinforced waistband that doesn’t roll down – score!
  
   
  Frost High Traverse 2 in 1 Tight | Athleta
  This 2-in-1 skirt and legging is great for extra booty coverage and it’s super cute! Plus, it gives you a pop of color in the middle of your otherwise black winter wear.
  
  High Rise Jacquard Chaturanga | Athleta
  Whether you’re lifting weights, doing yoga, or going for a run, these fun and bold leggings have your back! Athleta’s high rise chaturanga leggings our go-to yoga pants and this print is super cute! The fabric is performance-fitted so it works with you not against you, and the wide waistband has a secret pocket to stash your key.
  
  Revolution Run Tight | Lucy
  What do we think of these leggings? Flattering, bold, and ready to kick butt! Their moisture wicking fabric and quick drying fabric makes them critical for your high sweat activities! PS: The seams are specially made to prevent chafing.
  
  Women’s Freedom All Over Printed Legging | Target
  Target has been upping its workout gear in the last few years, and these leggings are no exception. Under $30 and a killer print? Sign us up!
  
   
  Gaviota Legging | Fabletics
  We’re officially fans of Kate Hudson’s line of workout clothing: Fabletics. Reasonably priced, super cute styles and great function including this fierce pair of leggings with some super-stylish mesh cutouts!
  
  Salar Legging | Fabletics
  Again, we LOVE Fabletics. They always have such cool, trendy styles for such a reasonable price. Rocking a pair of bold leggings like these during these colder months will give you that extra boost of energy you need to get to the gym!
  
  Ariel High Waisted Legging | Fabletics
  Sweat in style! These cute black and gold leggings double as both stylish and functional due to their reflective gold  trim for nighttime activity. Plus, they’re chafe-free and have an internal waistband pocket for your keys or cards.
  
  Stretch Naturals Capri | JunoActive
  If you’re looking for plus-sized activewear, we love this brand! These bright capris run up to 6X and come in 13 fun colors perfect for any season, and we’re LOVING the purple for winter! They are seriously super soft, super stretchy, and have an awesome waistband that prevents chafe.
  
  Wondering where to wear all these fun winter leggings? Check out our hottest winter workout!
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 9 Cold Weather Running Hacks"