"No matter how you eat them, carrots are a universally loved vegetable. Whether you eat them raw for a crunchy snack or roast them in the oven, carrots’ versatility is unmatched. Shred ‘em for salads, dice ‘em for soups, spiralize ‘em for pasta, dip ’em in hummus, what can’t you do with the bright orange carrot?!
  And remember the sugar in carrots is natural sugar, not added sugar. There is a big difference between the two. Natural sugar is combined with fiber and doesn’t create the insulin spike and gut issues that added sugar does. Plus, use your common sense: who do you know that gained weight from binging on carrots?  Please don’t be afraid to eat vegetables and fruits due to their sugar content: the sugar is naturally occurring!   
  These brightly colored veggies are versatile, tasty and healthy! Read on to learn all the health benefits of carrots.
  Carrot Nutrition Facts
  Here are the nutrition facts for 100 grams of carrots.
  
  Calories: 41
  Fat: 0.2 grams
  Cholesterol: 0
  Sodium: 50mg
  Carbohydrates: 9.6 grams
  Fiber: 2.8 grams
  Sugar: 4.7 grams
  Protein: 1 gram
  Related: 13 Health Benefits of Cucumbers
  Health Benefits of Carrots
  
  
  
  Prevents Vision Loss
  You’ve heard it before, likely as a child: carrots are good for eyesight! Shown to prevent vision loss, the eye-boosting power of carrots is a wonder!
  
  Promotes Weight Loss
  Due to the low-calorie nature of carrots, they’re a great weight loss aid. Grab them for a light snack that’s still crunchy and satisfying!
  
  Lowers Cholesterol
  Did you know that carrots can actually lower cholesterol? It’s true! The soluble fiber found in carrots aids in the excretion of bile acids which contain cholesterol.
  
  Boosts Immunity
  We could all use a boost to the immune system, yes? How about chomping some carrots to increase yours? Carrots contain vitamin A, C, B and E vitamins as well as critical minerals iron, zinc and copper all of which aid in boosting immunity!
  
  Lowers Cancer Risk
  The American Institute for Cancer Research cites carrots as a food that fights cancer! In addition to Vitamin A and K, carrots also contain Luteolin, a flavonoid phytochemical that provides antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer effects.
  
  Regulates Blood Sugar
  Carrots are a great choice for those managing diabetes. With a low GI score (a number that measures how quickly the body absorbs glucose from the food) of just 16 when raw, carrots are a great treat to regulate blood sugar.
  
  Cleans Teeth
  Crisp, raw vegetables, such as carrots, can actually help clean plaque from your teeth. Carrots also freshen your breath and can help prevent cavities.
  
  Promotes Healthy Skin
  Carrots get their bright orange color from an antioxidant called beta-carotene. This antioxidant promotes healthy skin as it helps to repair skin tissue and can even protect against the sun’s harmful rays.
  
  Lowers Risk of Heart Disease
  Eating vegetables has so many healthy benefits. By incorporating vegetables into your diet regularly, you can reduce your risk of heart disease and carrots makes it easy! Crunchy when eaten raw and sweet with roasted or steamed, carrots are a great low-calorie, high-fiber veggie that protects your heart.
  
  16 Healthy Carrot Recipes
  Carrots can be incorporated into any meal of the day! Here are our favorite carrot recipes from breakfast to dinner.
  Breakfast
  
  Healthy Carrot Cake Oatmeal
  Ready to have your [carrot] cake, and eat it too? We’re serving up carrot cake oatmeal for breakfast and this recipe is just as delicious as it sounds. Plus, it’s got 6 grams of fiber per serving.
  Carrot, Apple and Ginger Zinger
  There are few healthier ways to start your day than with this delicious carrot, apple, and ginger zinger smoothie. The ginger acts as a natural detoxer and you get some tummy-filling protein from the Greek yogurt.
  Gluten Free Carrot Cake Waffles
  Ready for a gluten-free, vegan version carrot cake?! How about in waffle form? These waffles are fluffy, moist, and full of that sweet yet spicy carrot cake flavor.
  Carrot, Orange Mango Smoothie
  
  Add vegetables to your fruit smoothies is always a great idea. And this delicious breakfast drink gets an extra punch of flavor and nutrition thanks to the carrots and lime juice!
  
  Snack
  
  Healthy Carrot Cake Muffins
  Loaded with fiber and good-for-you ingredients, these healthy carrot cake muffins are ones you’ll want to make again and again.
  Carrot Cake Protein Balls
  This recipe for carrot cake protein balls is great if you need a filling snack or a satisfying post-workout protein boost. We use raw carrots, raisins, walnuts and dates to pack a powerful and sweet nutritional bite.
  Carrot Apple Bread
  We love this healthy spin on a veggie/fruit bread. Jam-packed with flavor AND healthy ingredients, this carrot apple bread allows you to enjoy a tasty treat without the guilt.
  Side Dishes
  
  Honey Garlic Caramelized Carrots
  Yes, they’re a side dish, but in all honesty, these honey garlic caramelized carrots may just take center stage. Made on the stovetop (better yet, a cast iron skillet!), the carrots get browned and golden among notes of butter, honey and garlic.
  Honey Balsamic Roasted Carrots
  This is a go-to, hands-off way to make roasted carrots. Just let those babies roast in the oven until nice and caramelized while you make your glaze.
  Baked Carrot Fries
  We’ve made our own french fries, sweet potato fries, even yuca fries so we thought to ourselves, why not carrot fries?  Simple to make and super delicious, these carrot fries are a must-make!
  Main Dishes
  
  Cheddar Carrot Mac & Cheese
  This twist on the classic mac and cheese hides a pound of carrots inside! It’s a great way to sneak in extra veggies while still feeling indulgent.
  Slow Braised Beef with Carrot Mash
  This slow braised beef with carrot mash and olives is the modernized version of your grandma’s pot roast and man, it’s a welcome upgrade.
  Asian Edamame Salad with Carrots & Toasted Almonds
  This Asian Noodle Edamame Salad is loaded with tons of good for you veggies like red pepper, carrots, purple cabbage, edamame and topped it with a delicious peanut dressing.
  Creamy Sausage, Kale and Carrot Soup
  Dairy-free, gluten-free and paleo, this creamy sausage and kale soup is loaded with kale, carrots and chunks of spicy sausage. A hearty meal in one bowl!
  Dessert
  
  Carrot Cake Bread with Cream Cheese Frosting
  With all the carrot cake spin-offs above, of course you’ve got to have a yummy true carrot cake for dessert! This healthier carrot cake bread is moist and delicious and the low-fat cream cheese frosting is to die for!
  Orange Carrot Zucchini Cake with Coconut Cream Cheese Frosting
  Slightly different than the classic, this Orange Carrot Zucchini Cake with Coconut Cream Frosting is naturally sweetened with maple syrup and fresh orange juice, has TWO veggies inside, and uses greek yogurt to add that ever-important moisture.
  READ THIS NEXT: 28-Day Veggie Challenge"