"Most people associate slow cookers with savory meals, but they can also be great for making sweet treats too. Desserts and other sweet noms can often take a lot of time and create a massive mess, but the following 11 recipes are perfect for when you want to keep it simple and step away for the day, returning to something delectably delicious come evening. Bonus: these recipes won’t sabotage your health goals either being lower in sugar and made with real ingredients!
  
   Crock-Pot Sugar Free Chocolate Molten Lava Cake
  
  
  Perhaps Crock-Pot cake isn’t going to look like a masterpiece, but it’s the flavor that really matters anyway, right? And the best part is, you can put it all in the pot and go about your day while it does its thing. Featuring gluten-free flour, unsweetened cocoa powder, sugar-free chocolate chips, vanilla extract and vanilla liquid stevia, it’ll satisfy your sweet tooth without the guilt.
  
  Pear and Cardamom Crisp
  
  
  This heavenly dessert is not only delicious but sophisticated too. Combining oats, pecans, pears, cardamom and cinnamon, it’s full of sweet and spice and everything nice!
  Related: 11 Simple Slow Cooker Recipes 
  
   Slow Cooker Oatmeal Cookies
  
  
  Cookies in the Crock-Pot? Why not! Healthy, gluten-free, and offering up a perfect consistency, these babies will be hard to resist.
  
  Crock-Pot Cinnamon Applesauce
  
  
  This homemade cinnamon and honey applesauce is perfect for pleasing your palate when a touch of sweetness is calling your name, whether that be in a spoonful for dessert, or even for potato pancakes or pork chops.
  
   Easy Crock-Pot Cinnamon Pecans
  
  
  These sweet pecans go right in the Crock-Pot, along with cinnamon, pure vanilla extract, pure maple syrup and some coconut oil. It doesn’t get much easier or healthier than that!
  
  Lemon Pudding Cake
  
  
  Something about a citrus-oriented dessert makes it feel light and fresh. This recipe’s simple ingredients list adds to that idea, utilizing low-fat yogurt, fresh pomegranate arils and real whipped cream.
  
  Slow Cooker Carrot Cake
  
  
  Carrot cake may sound healthy, given that a vegetable is part of the equation, but typically it’s just another guilty pleasure. This Crock-Pot recipe, however, has no added sugar and is low carb to boot!
  
  Crock-Pot Sugar-Free Pumpkin Pie Bars
  
  
  Fall is for pumpkin, and this recipe is definitely a go-to for getting in the spirit. Ingredients like unsweetened shredded coconut, unsweetened cocoa powder, unsalted sunflower seeds, pumpkin puree, pumpkin pie spice and cinnamon liquid stevia make for a scrumptious and healthy dessert for Thanksgiving, or anytime.
  
  Crock Pot Spiced Cranberry Apple Cider
  
  
  Warm sweaters, crisp air and a warm mug of apple cider sounds so inviting, doesn’t it? This Crock-Pot spiced cranberry apple cider recipe is a holiday people pleaser, or perfect for a quiet night in. Just toss all the ingredients into the pot and enjoy!
  
   Gingerbread Overnight Oats
  
  
  When you want sweets for breakfast, this is the perfect autumn go-to option. Just put the ingredients in the Crock-Pot overnight and enjoy to your heart’s desire come morning.
  
   Crock-Pot Sugar-Free Chocolate Quinoa Brownies
  
  
  When the colder seasons come, the Crock-Pot calls, and there’s nothing nicer than coming home to a house that smells like brownies! This delicious batch features ingredients like quinoa, sugar-free chocolate chips, flaxseed and unsweetened applesauce.
  READ THIS NEXT: 9 Delicious Dessert Recipes Under 100 Calories"