"Valentine’s Day is around the corner, and it’s another opportunity to show those in your life how much you care about them! Whether you’re shopping for your partner, your friends, or for yourself this holiday season, show some love with some of our favorite V-Day appropriate gifts!
  This list is made up of gifts we know the fitness fanatic and foodies in your life will love! Treat your loved ones (or yourself, we won’t tell!) with some of these GHU-approved gifts!
  1. Heart-Shaped Bamboo Cheese Board
  This heart-shaped bamboo cheese board is the perfect gift for anyone who loves hosting, loves cheese, or has a kitchen! You can never have too many cheese boards, and this one is perfect for this holiday season. Need a Valentine’s Day party hostess gift? This is it!
  
  2. Heart-Shaped Waffle Maker
  Who doesn’t love waffles? We sure do! This adorable heart-shaped waffle maker is the breakfast lover’s perfect gift. Kids and adults alike can enjoy festive, delicious waffles year round! But it’s particularly perfect on Valentine’s Day!
  
  3. Spiralizer
  A spiralizer is the perfect gift for someone who loves to cook or anyone who is kicking off their health journey! Or, literally anyone in between. Spiralizing has taken off over the last few years and we adore them! They help you incorporate tons of veggies into your diet without feeling restricted in what you’re eating.
  
  4. Inspiralized Cookbook
  Does your loved one already own a spiralizer? Or, are you looking to make your gift extra special? This spiralizer cookbook is a NECESSITY if you own one. Countless recipes and tons of inspiration are inside, and it’ll help them (or you!) make the most of this new kitchen appliance.
  
  5. Breville Juicer
  If you follow GHU, you know we LOVE the Breville juicer. This is a dream gift for anyone who loves cooking, takes healthy eating seriously, or simply enjoys tasty juice! This appliance is easy to clean, easy to use, and if you ask us, everyone needs one.
  
  6. Breville Juicing Cookbook
  Want to make that juicer gift even better? Add a juicing cookbook to it! Unlike smoothies, sometimes figuring out how to make healthy juice can be difficult. This cookbook is the perfect solution.
  
  7. KitchenAid Mixer 
  Shopping for the baker in your life? This KitchenAid mixer (available in tons of Valentine’s Day appropriate colors!) is the ticket!
  
  8. Pink Himalayan Block Cooking Salt Plate
  For anyone who cooks a lot and takes the art of cooking seriously, this Himalayan Block Cooking Salt Plate is a great gift. Not only is it aesthetically pleasing, but also super functional! It adds an extra spice and sizzle to whatever you’re cooking.
  
  9. Himalayan Salt Shot Glasses
  For anyone in your life who has a bar in their home, loves to host, or simply loves the Himalayan salt trend, these salt shot glasses are the perfect gift. Bonus? They’re so fun to use!
  
  10. Non-Stick Heart Shaped Egg Pan
  Again for the foodie or chef in your life, this on-theme egg pan is a great gift! It’s super functional, totally Valentine’s Day appropriate, and a gift your loved ones will actually use!
  
  11. Sherpa Pink Himalayan Sea Salt
  If you’re shopping for someone who loves to indulge in some self-care (or needs to relax!) these Himalayan bath salts are the perfect gift. Bath salts have TONS of medicinal benefits and is the perfect way to help your loved ones relax.
  
  12. Boss Babe Tumbler
  Know anyone who loves motivational quotes and fun decor? This tumbler is the perfect gift! Inspire them all day and give them the ability to bring their drinks on-the-go!
  
  13. Bath Bomb Gift Set
  If self-care is your gig, these bath bombs are what you are looking for. If you haven’t indulged in a bath bomb before, we HIGHLY encourage you to get one of these sets for yourself, too! They’re vegan, made with essential plant-based oils and so pretty!
  
  14. Kopari Coconut Crush Scrub
  On the topic of self-care, this Kopari coconut crush scrub is the all-natural, great-smelling, super-effective gift you can’t pass up. This brand has loads of natural products that even sensitive skin can handle!
  
  15. Pink Clay Mask
  This pink mask would be a super cute gift. The mask itself, which comes out pink (perfect for this holiday) will have your skin glowing. And, it comes with it’s own brush for a soft application and little waste.
  
  16. Pink Swell Water Bottle
  On any given day, there are half a dozen Swell bottles in the GHU office. These water bottles are AMAZING. This gift is perfect for everyone, from the gym-goer to the foodie to the person who’s always stuck at the office. 
  
  17. Fun Pink Adidas Sneakers
  Who doesn’t love a new pair of sneakers? These pink ones are an incredible gift for the workout fanatic on your list! They come in tons of colors and styles, but we love these pink ones for Valentine’s Day (and year round!).
  
  18. Festive Beats by Dre Wireless Headphones
  In the age of all-things-wireless, these headphones are a must. For anyone you’re shopping for, these are a fantastic gift. From the gym to the office, these are useful everywhere. Plus, they come in lots of colors! (But, for Valentine’s Day, we vote rose gold!)
  
  19. Alo Yoga Leggings & Matching Sports Bra
  “I have too many workout clothes,” said no one EVER. These pieces from Alo Yoga, one of our favorite brands at GHU, are not only the perfect color for this holiday, but they’re truly awesome. Alo products are high quality, last forever, and look great. Who wouldn’t love to get some yoga gear as a gift?!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  20. Workout Tank from Alo Yoga
  Another on-holiday piece from Alo: this adorable red tank! This is perfect for the gym-goer you’re shopping for! (And we think it would look pretty great on you, too!).
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 9 Healthy Valentine’s Dessert Recipes"