"Making freezer meals in advance is an amazing meal prep idea for expecting parents, aging adults, or let’s face it anyone who is busy! They key to make ahead freezer meals is organization. We have taken out all the guesswork and armed you with 6 delicious meals that you should be able to assemble in around 60 minutes. We picked some of our favorite gluten-free, Paleo and vegetarian meals to fit all the needs of your family! That’s right, 6 delicious recipes ready to go, whenever you need them. Here is what you’ll need: 
  The Supplies
  You don’t need these supplies in order to make these recipes, but they make freezer meals and meal prep anytime a snap! You can use your own baking dishes, and tupperware if you like, but you will likely want freezer bags and aluminum foil on hand. 
  
  Hand Free Baggie Holders
  Freezer Bags
  Disposable Baking Pans
  Aluminum Foil
  Plastic Wrap
  Permanent Marker
  
  The Meals
  1. Paleo Skillet Beef Fajitas by A Healthy Life For Me
  
  This Whole30 one skillet meal is loaded with protein and flavor. This gluten-free meal is Paleo, but you could serve with cauliflower rice, or tortillas as well.
  2. Chunky and Hearty White Bean Soup by The Picky Eater
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  Warm up with a bowl of this chunky and hearty white bean soup that makes the ultimate vegetarian meal. This thick and delicious soup has a rich and creamy texture from pureed beans without the extra fat and calories from heavy cream. This recipe has to simmer a bit, so start this soup and let it simmer while you make the other recipes. 
  3. Three Cheese Zucchini Stuffed Lasagna Rolls by Skinny Taste
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  Try these vegetarian three cheese zucchini stuffed lasagna rolls for Meatless Monday! This delicious stuffed lasagna is oozing with vitamin packed spinach, cheese, and a light sauce. We love this lasagna meal so much, we suggest making one for dinner right away and freezing the second for later!
  4. 5 Ingredient Stuffed Banana Peppers by Gluten Free Jess
  
  These 5 ingredient stuffed banana peppers are filled with lean ground turkey, and zesty seasonings. This simple recipe is easy to make, gluten free, and super tasty!
  5. 4 Ingredient Pesto Freezer Burritos by Food Faith Fitness
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  This tasty 4 ingredient pesto freezer burrito recipe takes just minutes to make. This pre-cooked healthy breakfast is perfect for busy mornings, just zap in the microwave and you have a hot and delicious meal or post workout snack.
  6. Mexican Quinoa Sweet Potato Casserole by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  Spice up the night with this vegan, gluten free casserole that is loaded with flavor, hearty ingredients, and top with an addictive Greek yogurt chipotle sauce. This recipe does have a kick, so reduce or eliminate the cayenne pepper if you serve this meal to kiddos or those who don’t care for spice.
  The Shopping List
  Click here to get your printable shopping list!
  We hope these freeze ahead meals serve you well. If these healthy, easy recipes are up your alley make sure to check out check out our 8 Meal Prep Tips For Beginners. After all, simple delicious recipes are only simple if you’re prepared. 
  READ THIS NEXT: 5 Healthy, Easy Sheet-Pan Dinners"