"If you known me for any time at all, you know I’m passionate about feeding my body properly with foods that not only fuel me and give me nutrients, but also taste good. One of the biggest things I’ve come to realize about healthy eating is that is can take some planning, so over the years I’ve developed some go-to foods that I love and are also good for me; things I don’t have to think about and I just know they’re providing my body with key nutrients and energy. Yogurt is one of those foods. I eat yogurt every day whether it’s with pumpkin seeds and blueberries first thing in the morning, post-workout for a protein boost, or as a nighttime treat with cacoa nibs and almonds.
  
  Yogurt is filled with healthy probiotics that are good for your gut, calcium to keep your bones strong, and depending on the type you choose, can have ample amounts of protein. I typically reach for Greek yogurt but I was at a fitness convention a year ago and got the chance to taste some yummy siggi’s Icelandic yogurt. siggi’s is a company that has been making Icelandic yogurt, also known as skyr, since 2004 but this was my first encounter and I stood at their booth and tried all the flavors! And now, siggi’s has come out with a new line of single-serve, whole-milk drinkable yogurt that I’m mildly obsessed with. And if you know me at all, getting me to deviate from my Greek yogurt is not easy but after chatting with the friendly staff, I came to find out siggi’s has some major health benefits. And let me tell you, not all yogurts are created equal. There are several things I’m always looking at when it comes to yogurt, for instance, if there are artificial colors or flavors, where the milk is coming from, how much sugar, and I want it to be super creamy! Siggi’s passed my standards; check out these amazing attributes:
  
  Milk from grass-fed cows
  No aspartame
  No sucralose
  No gelatin
  No artificial colorings
  No preservatives
  No high fructose corn syrup
  Non-GMO verified
  High in protein
  Real fruit, not flavoring
  Not a lot of sugar (at least 25% less than leading flavored yogurts)
  
  My schedule is, let’s just say, a little crazy. From meetings at the office, teaching classes at the gym, working on-air in home shopping, speaking events and a fair amount of travel- I’m constantly on the go. So the fact that siggi’s has come out with a drinkable yogurt is a game changer for me. I have yet to find a ready-to-drink protein beverage that I actually like with no aftertaste and not a lot of extra ingredients. Siggi’s drinkable yogurt is the perfect portable snack that I can easily transport and drink in between tasks all while still giving my body what it needs. Plus, siggi’s drinkable yogurt has just five simple ingredients and not a lot of sugar, 180 calories per bottle and 8 grams of protein.
  
  Siggi’s drinkable yogurt has now made it onto my list of “go-to” snacks due to the simple ingredients— whole milk, organic agave nectar, Madagascar bourbon vanilla, fruit pectin and live active cultures in the vanilla flavor— and the delicious flavors—blueberry, strawberry and vanilla. And actually it’s made its way into our refrigerator at the office too. Our whole team likes the taste and ease of it. So next time, you see me flying from the office to the airport, you can bet I have a siggi’s whole milk drinkable yogurt in my bag.
  READ THIS NEXT: 7 Tips For Taking Your Fitness Routine On The Road"