"Whether you work a nine to five or find yourself constantly on the go throughout the day, finding time to eat lunch can be difficult. You either stop by the nearest sandwich shop and scarf down a sub, opt for snacks to sustain you throughout the day, or sometimes skip it altogether. Any and all of these can work against your weight loss goals, your energy levels and your overall well being for a healthy and balanced lifestyle. That’s why it’s so important to think a step ahead. Packing your own lunch is a game changer for slimming down. And it doesn’t have to take up time in the morning, either. You’ll cut calories, nourish yourself with whole foods and optimize your energy levels as the day unfolds. Here are seven office lunch ideas to consider:
  
  Green Roll by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  
  Sandwiches and wraps are lunchtime staples, but the types of ingredients used can crush your weight loss goals. A green roll on the other hand is low-carb, high protein and filled with delicious and nutritious ingredients like protein-rich quinoa, edamame and turkey. Wrapping it all in green cabbage leaf as opposed to typical bread does wonders to improve it’s nutritional value while the hummus is a refreshing take on spreads high in fat like mayonnaise. Extremely easy to make, you can whip this up in minutes before heading out the door for the day.
  Related: Go Breadless with These 16 Sandwich SubstitutionsButternut Squash Lentil Soup by PopSugar
  
  
  
  Making homemade soups and stews is a great way to pack in a variety of healthful ingredients that can both serve as a meal for dinner and leftovers for lunch. This soup recipe requires minimal work, as you can throw the ingredients into a slow cooker in the morning and come home in the evening with dinner ready. At only 250 calories per serving, 17 grams of fiber and 18.3 grams of protein, it’s a great lunchtime meal for the next day that will keep you full and energized for hours.Chicken Chickpea Chopped Salad by Ambitious Kitchen
  
  
  
  Salads are big in the world of weight loss, but the ingredients you use can make all the difference. Without enough nutritional depth, salads can leave you feeling unsatisfied and desperately reaching for unhealthy snacks. This chickpea chopped salad is big in size, low in calories and rich in nutritional value. The chicken breast and chickpeas provide you with protein and the avocados with healthy fat—two components in keeping you full and satisfied.Curried Egg Salad Sandwich by Health
  
  
  
  Eggs are low in calories and high in protein, which makes them ideal for not just breakfast but lunchtime, too. This egg salad recipe uses Greek yogurt instead of mayonnaise to cut down the calories and fat. The curry powder is packed with antioxidants, the spinach is naturally low in fat and cholesterol, high in niacin, zinc, protein and fiber, and the red bell pepper and orange high in vitamin C.Mason Jar Tex Mex Salad by Fit Foodie Finds
  
  
  
  Mason jars have been having a moment for a while now, especially since their generous size serves as a great alternative to typical plastic storage containers. A smart way to pack a salad for lunch, you put the dressing at the bottom of the jar to keep the ingredients from getting soggy until it’s time to eat. This recipe calls for an incredible array of vibrant and healthy ingredients that, together, will fill you up without weighing you down. Quinoa, avocados, Greek yogurt, black beans, corn, spinach, lime and garlic are among the many components that make this a must-have lunchtime meal.Raw Kale, Grapefruit, and Toasted Hazelnut Salad by Health
  
  
  
  Fruits, veggies and nuts make a great combo for a healthy meal. Grapefruit is the standout food in this recipe. Well-known for aiding in weight loss, research has found that when overweight people ate grapefruit at the beginning of every meal, they lost more weight than those who didn’t.Paleo Friendly Meaty Veggie Roll-Ups by Skinny MS.
  
  
  
  This recipe offers three healthy and fun flavor combinations to choose from. Rich in protein, roast beef, chicken or turkey replace the bread, rolling up around an array of naturally low-fat and nutritious ingredients like red pepper strips, carrot sticks, apple slices, red cabbage and sliced avocado. They’re the perfect grab-and-go lunchtime item.
  
  READ THIS NEXT: Chris Freytag’s Favorite Recipes Ever"