"From relatives to friends, any open-armed host will find their home filled with cheery faces and hungry mouths, it can be hard to cater to everyone’s needs. That’s when hearty and healthy breakfast or brunch recipes that will serve a crowd come in handy. And when schedules don’t match up, the following 19 delicious meals are perfect for sticking in the fridge, heating back up and giving people time to dig in when it’s right for them.Peanut Butter and Jelly Oatmeal Bake
  
  
  
  This warm peanut butter and jelly baked oatmeal bake is gluten free, boasts 8 grams of protein per serving and satisfies sweet and savory enthusiasts alike. You can even make this recipe utilizing individual muffin papers for family and friends on-the-go.
  Related: 9 Reasons To Love OatmealThe Giant Frittata
  
  
  
  Weekend mornings with the in-laws in town? Perhaps it’s holiday break and your kids have every friend imaginable over! When you need to feed an army, this giant frittata will do the trick. This dish is packed with a delicious combination of veggies, as well as Parmesan cheese to give it some richness without overloading everyone on calories and fat.Chorizo and Spinach Quiche
  
  
  
  Quiche is most definitely a crowd pleaser, but the classic dish is typically laden with butter, cheese and processed flour. This recipe is healthy and heavenly, from the coconut’s healthy fats to the pile of superfood spinach. It’s also dairy free and uses no white flour.Oatmeal Superfood Breakfast Bars
  
  
  
  Are the holidays getting the best of you? Being short on time but wanting to please everyone can be stressful. For days when you really just want to offer everyone cereal, try this oatmeal superfood breakfast bars recipes instead. The bars are full of protein, gluten-free, packed with antioxidant-rich blueberries, seeds and oats, and are dairy-free. But all that healthiness won’t sacrifice the taste. These bars are chewy, sweet and filling. Cheesy Egg White Veggie Breakfast Muffins
  
  
  
  Muffins get a bad rap since they’re usually filled with sugar and carbs. But there’s something to be said for their ability to be eaten anywhere. Eggs, on the other hand, are usually a sit-down requirement. But this recipe combines the best of both worlds. Low-carb, gluten-free and high-protein, these cheesy egg white veggie breakfast muffins are perfect for busy mornings. Banana Breakfast Cake
  
  
  
  Who wants cake for breakfast? Not only is this big enough to serve the family and then some, but this banana breakfast cake is healthy to boot. It’s made with 100 percent whole grains, all-natural sugars and is ready in under 30 minutes!Baked Breakfast Quinoa with Dates and Bananas
  
  
  
  Ever since quinoa came onto the scene, it seems there’s so many new healthy twists on breakfast classics, like this baked breakfast quinoa recipe. It’s naturally sweetened with bananas and dates, while the almond streusel gives it a delectably crunchy finish. Have some health nuts in town? Impress them with this dish!
  Related: 15 High Protein Breakfasts Under 300 CaloriesHealthy and Wholesome French Toast Casserole Bake
  
  
  
  French toast is for weekend warriors. But does it have to leave you feeling like there’s a lead weight in your stomach? This bake is so easy to prepare, so healthy, and irresistibly tasty. Whole grain whole-wheat bakery bread is a much better bargain for your health and your energy levels than sandwich bread. The egg mixture involves whole eggs, coconut milk, pure vanilla extract, cinnamon, nutmeg, and pure maple syrup for sweetness.Pumpkin French Toast Bake
  
  
  
  So now that French toast is on your mind, why not learn about even more healthier ways to feed the family and then some? This bake keeps it simple for a stress-free chef. Using minimal ingredients,this sweet and spicy pumpkin French toast is made the night before, so your morning requires can be relaxing while the smell of pumpkin pie spice fills the house.Hatch Green Chile and Tomato Egg Casserole
  
  
  
  Hatch Green Chile and Tomato Egg Casserole! A healthy gluten free casserole with the fresh taste of hatch green chiles and tomatoes make for a super easy and quick dinner recipe or even breakfast! Great for vegetarians or just add meat for those hungry carnivores.Apple Cinnamon Bread Pudding
  
  
  
  Bread pudding doesn’t exactly make the list of the healthiest eats out ther … until now that is! This sensationally sweet dessert will trick your taste buds into thinking it’s a guilty pleasure, when really it’s made with crusty whole wheat bread, coconut milk,unsweetened applesauce, eggs, ground cinnamon, freshly grated nutmeg, a Red Delicious apple, raisins and walnuts!Turkey Sausage, Spinach, and Mushroom Egg Bake
  
  
  
  When you want to sneak in some veggies into an egg bake when everyone’s crying for indulgent comfort food, try this recipe. The feta and goat cheese make it a creamy casserole of perfection, while the spinach and crimini mushrooms soak into the egg mixture, and the turkey sausage rounds out this bold breakfast bake.Pumpkin Spice Latte Quinoa Breakfast Bake
  
  
  
  Have a hankering for a pumpkin spice latte? Before you and your crew fill up on the calorie-laden drink, try making this protein-rich pumpkin spice latte quinoa breakfast casserole. Craving caffeine? You’ll be glad to know there’s plenty of it in every bite.Polenta, Refried Beans and Egg Skillet Bake
  
  
  
  When you pair indulgent food with indulgent food, you get one not-so-healthy meal. But when you are craving something hearty, but know you need something wholesome, this is the recipe to try — especially if you have a crowd at the table. The polenta makes for the perfect base, while the creamy refried beans, salsa, cheese and eggs really round out this simple yet delicious dish. With 14 grams of protein and 5 grams of fiber per serving, it’s a much healthier breakfast than you may have imagined!Quinoa Sweet Potato Breakfast Bake
  
  
  
  This dish require little clean up and gives you plenty of room to add in extra ingredients. This bake will give you, your friends and family plenty of sustainable energy thanks to the sweet potatoes. Plus, it’s packed with plenty of protein in the eggs and quinoa, too!Healthy Baked Pancakes
  
  
  
  Pancakes are a breakfast staple, but this recipe will make even the adults go wild, since the batter just so happens to be gluten, grain, dairy and refined sugar free! These pancakes are high protein, too, thanks to the almond meal and buckwheat flour base combined with the eggs.Breakfast Strata
  
  
  
  Want to make sure you get your veggie fill for the day? Why not get everyone on your train and make this breakfast strata dish that’s loaded with broccoli and onions? Multigrain bread, eggs and two types of cheese make it insanely satisfying, too. Healthy Grits Casserole
  
  
  
  Grits are known for their southern comfort feel, but that usually comes with a whole lot of indulgent ingredients. This recipe keeps it light by using skim milk and two eggs combined with the healthy whole grain, so you can make a big batch for breakfast that’s hearty, filling, simple and will fill up everyone. Paleo Breakfast Pizza
  
  
  
  Is there ever really a bad time for pizza? If you know you have some pie lovers coming into town, or just want to treat the children without weighing yourself down, this recipe is sure to be a crowd pleaser. Ten eggs, a quarter pound of chorizo, onion, grape tomatoes, and fruity options like mango and kiwi make this a healthy and filling morning treat.
  READ THIS NEXT: How To Overcome Anxiety During The Holidays"