"This page may contain affiliate links, meaning at no additional cost to you, Get Healthy U may receive a commission if you click through and make a purchase.
  Part of the reason eating out is so convenient is because you don’t have to wash the dishes! And if you’re like me, the actual cooking is not that bad, until you’ve finished your amazing masterpiece, cleared the plates and realize you now have to spend another hour in the kitchen to clean up all the pots and pans, bowls and utensils. Ugh!
  That’s where sheet-pan dinners come into play. Preheat your oven, throw everything on the sheet pan (including protein and veggies!) set the timer and move on!
  When it’s done, you’ll have a delicious dinner with only one pan to clean. That’s what I’m talking about.
  
  A few tips to become a sheet-pan recipe master:
  
  Use aluminum foil, parchment paper  or a Silpat mat on the pan and the cleanup will be even easier!
  Pair quick-cooking vegetables and proteins together and slow-cooking vegetables and proteins together; i.e. you wouldn’t throw asparagus (which takes only 10-15 minutes) onto the same pan as a spaghetti squash (which can take 45-60 minutes).
  Use the time it takes to cook in the oven to make some rice, couscous or pasta on the side. I know… it’s one more dish to clean, but c’mon two ain’t bad.
  Cut vegetables roughly the same size to encourage an even cooking.
  For slower cooking vegetables, consider a bone-in meat such as bone-in chicken thighs or t-bone steak as to not dry out the meat by the time the veggies are done.
  If you’ve run into a problem, where the meat is done, but the veggies are still firm, just remove the meat to a plate allowing it to rest (which is recommended anyway to ensure better flavor and moisture) and allow the vegetables to continue in the oven.
  Is your recipe looking a little peaked? Turn the broiler on for the last couple minutes of cooking to nicely brown and caramelize your ingredients.
  
  Now that you know all there is to know about making recipes on a sheet pan, here are 5 awesome sheet pan recipes we love!
  1.BBQ Chicken & Sweet Potato Fries
  
  Ingredients:
  1 pound chicken drumsticks
  ½ cup store-bought or homemade BBQ sauce
  2 medium sweet potatoes, washed
  2 tablespoons olive oil
  ½ teaspoon garlic powder
  ½ teaspoon paprika
  Salt and pepper, to taste
  Directions:
  Preheat to 400. Place drumsticks on baking sheet leaving one half of baking sheet empty. Lather with half of BBQ sauce. Cover with foil. Bake 10 minutes. While chicken cooks, cut sweet potatoes into fry shapes. When chicken has cooked 10 minutes, pull out, flip chicken pieces, re-apply remaining BBQ, place sweet potatoes on empty half of baking sheet, drizzle with olive oil, seasonings and bbq and cook with chicken additional 20 to 30 minutes until chicken is no longer pink and sweet potatoes are tender.
  Related: Your 1-Week Trader Joe’s Meal Plan
   2. Apple Cider Glazed Pork Chops, Apples & Fennel
  
  Ingredients:
  4 pork chops
  2 apples, sliced into quarters
  2 fennel bulbs, cut in half lengthwise and then cut into 1-inch segments
  Olive oil
  Salt & Pepper
  1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar
  For the glaze:
  1.5 cups apple cider
  1/4 cup apple cider vinegar
  1/2 tablespoon whole grain mustard
  3 tablespoons maple syrup
  Directions:
  Preheat oven to 425. Place pork chops, apples and fennel on baking sheet, drizzle with olive oil and salt & pepper. Drizzle a touch of balsamic over the fennel. Bake 25-30 minutes. Meanwhile, in a saucepan over high heat, add apple cider, apple cider vinegar, mustard and bring to a boil. Allow to boil several minutes until reduced by 2/3. Turn off heat and stir in maple syrup. Allow to cool slightly until pork is done. Let pork rest and let fennel roast a touch longer if necessary. Drizzle with sauce.
   3. Vegetarian Roasted Root Veggies & Beans with Chipotle Cream
  
  Ingredients:
  4 red (and/or golden) beets, each beet cut into quarters, then each quarter cut in half
  1 pound fingerling potatoes, cut into quarts
  4 large parsnips, chopped
  5 large carrots, chopped
  10-15 brussels sprouts, cut into quarters
  4 whole cloves garlic
  1 can kidney beans, drained & rinsed
  Chipotle Cream:
  ½ cup Greek yogurt
  1 tablespoon lime juice
  1 teaspoon honey
  1 teaspoon chipotle in adobo sauce
  Directions:
  Preheat oven to 400. Line baking sheet with parchment and place all vegetables (not beans) on sheet. Drizzle with olive oil, salt & pepper and any other desired seasonings. Bake 20 minutes. For the chipotle cream, mix all ingredients together and refrigerate until ready to use. After 20 minutes, give all the vegetables a good toss and bake for another 20-25 minutes. In last 5 minutes of cooking, toss beans with the vegetables. Top with chipotle cream. *These veggies are awesome to eat on their own, on a tostada or used all week in different recipes.
   4. Moroccan Chicken with Olives, Lemons & Almond Raisin Couscous
  
  See below printable for full Moroccan Chicken recipe and 4 more sheet pan dinners!
  
  Click here to get your printable recipes!
  
  Can’t get enough sheet pan recipes?
  You can also try making sheet pan nachos! No recipe needed…
  Just pile all your favorite ingredients onto a sheet pan reserving ones that shouldn’t cook, bake in a preheated oven until melty and top with fresh ingredients.
  READ THIS NEXT: 5 Healthy Dinners You Can Make Tonight (6 Ingredients or Less)"