"We’ve made our list, checked it twice, and these are the gifts we know your fitness & food-obsessed friends and family will think are nice! These gifts are geared toward the health-conscious, fun-loving people on your Christmas list this year.
  From fitness gear & accessories to personal wellness to gifts for the kitchen, this list has something for everyone you’re buying for, maybe even something for you!
  Check out the graphic below and then keep on scrolling to read all about our favorites!
  
  Fitness Gear & Accessories
  1) S’well Insulated Water Bottle
  This adorable gold water bottle by Swell isn’t all looks, it’s also super practical. It’ll keep your water cold for 12 hours or your hot chocolate hot for 24!
  Say goodbye to condensation and hello to fresh liquids, just the temperature you like them at!
  2) Skidless Premium Towel by Yogitoes
  
  This is the perfect gift for the Hot Yoga lover in your life! Nothing is worse than slipping and sliding on your mat when your Vinyasa is in full flow.
  Enter the Skidless Premium Towel by Yogitoes. Just throw it over your yoga mat to prevent slippage during hot yoga OR regular yoga!
  3) Fitbit
  We truly can’t recommend these enough. Being able to track your activities is such a key element to maintaining a truly healthy lifestyle.
  Fitbit is easy to use, sleek, and our favorite at GHU!
  
  4) Stylish & Functional Yoga Pants by Alo
  These leggings by Alo Yoga are a team favorite here.
  Not only are they totally functional for your next workout at home, outside, or at the gym, but they’re also the PERFECT pair-with-a-sweater pair of leggings for running errands or a casual night out.
  Step up your style game with these awesome Alo’s!
  5) Beats Pill Speaker
  For the fitness fanatic in your life, music is likely integral in their fitness routine.
  These speakers are AMAZING. We have one in our office at GHU and you would be blown away at how crisp, clear, and loud a tiny speaker can be!
  We HIGHLY recommend the Beats Pill!
  6) Beats® Powerbeats3 Wireless In-Ear Headphones
  These lightweight Beats Powerbeats 3 Wireless In-Ear Headphones by Beats by Dre are exactly what the fitness lover in your life needs this year! They’re a bit pricey to be a stocking stuffer, but big things come in small packages!
  They’re perfect for working out because they won’t fall out of your ear but you won’t have to deal with that pesky wire!
  7) Eva Full Foam Roller by SPRI
  Nothing is better than a good foam roll after a tough workout. Actually–getting one as a gift is!
  This is another great gift for a fitness lover. SPRI makes an amazing foam roller. Give your loved one the gift of stretched out muscles and a lack of aches & pains!
  Related: 4 Reasons You Need More Massage In Your Life
  8) Noise Cancelling Headphones by Beats
  If the person on your list loves getting in the zone and shutting out the outside world, these noise canceling over-the-ear headphones by Beats are the perfect item.
  This particular pair comes in a wide variety of colors and boasts sound quality that is second to none. Our team members with these headphones swear by them!
  9) RBX Active Women’s Zip Mock Pullover
  This no-fuss mock pullover was designed with comfort in mind! It’s made with X-Heat technology to hold heat in and keeps you warm plus it has pockets for extra comfort.
  This is PERFECT for the workout friend or yogi in your life who’s always looking for those leaving-the-gym or leaving-the-studio items!
  10) Gaiam Print Yoga Mat
  This lightweight yoga mat is perfect for that Yogi who is always on the go! It can fold up or fit into any bag or purse and has SERIOUS grip!
  It comes in dozens of prints, and the Gaiam yoga mats are a team favorite at Get Healthy U!
  11) Adidas by Stella McCartney Duffel Bag
  This collaboration between Stella McCartney and Adidas will have any fitness lover on your gift list drooling.
  Fun, functional, and perfect for the gym!
  Bonus? It’s the perfect overnight duffel or a carryon. Looking for a multi-purpose gift for that hard to buy for loved one? This is it!
  Self Care & Wellness
  12) Epsom Salts
  If you have a yogi or fitness fanatic in your life, epsom salts are the PERFECT gift! These salts are made from high-quality ingredients and made in the USA.
  They’ll leave sore, post-yoga muscles feeling relaxed and recovered. Giving the gift of relaxation and recovery is now totally possible!
  13) You Are So Awesome Book
  This little book of inspiration is an office favorite at Get Healthy U.
  For anyone in your life that needs a little inspiration, a reminder of how awesome they are, or a push in the direction of their dreams, this book is the perfect gift (and only $10!)
  14) Succulent Garden
  We’ve talked many times about how having plants in your home can have such a positive effect on your life which makes them an awesome gift to give someone else!
  Succulents are SO easy to care for! They basically require no care and add a wonderful element to any living space. If you want to go the extra mile, get them an adorable succulent garden bowl, like this one!
  15) Organic Bath Bombs
  If you’ve ever experienced a bath bomb, you know how great this gift is.
  Encourage your loved ones to engage in some self-care this holiday season with this set of organic, vegan, luxurious bath bombs!
  16) Rosebud Minted Rose Lip Balm
  Everyone suffers from dry lips during the winter, and the perfect stocking stuffer is this lip balm!
  It heals irritation, soothes the sting of minor burns (common during these bitter cold months) and is easy to use!
  Plus, the packaging is adorable vintage. Use it on your lips, elbows, knees, or any other dry spots!
  If you’re getting it as a gift, we think you should probably order two (treat yourself!).
  17) Supergoop Sunscreen Set
  For the active outdoorsy person in your life, a Supergoop Sunscreen set is the PERFECT gift. Now, more than ever, we’re hyperaware of the effects of the sun on our skin. Everyone should be wearing sunscreen every day, yes, even you!
  This travel set is perfect for the skier, the swimmer, the adventurer in your life. This set is the closest you can get to giving the gift of eternal youth!
  (If the set isn’t what you’re looking for, check out the individual items for stocking stuffers here!)
  18) Essential Oils Kit
  If you or a loved one are into essential oils (or WANT to be), then the Rocky Mountain Oil Kits are your way to go. There’s lots of combinations and packages available.
  They cater to a huge range of needs and purposes and are sure to be a BIG winner this holiday season. Give them as a gift or use them individually as a stocking stuffer!
  19) Paddywax Candles
  Everyone loves a good candle! Get them as a stocking stuffer, a hostess gift, or a present for anyone in your life that loves a little aromatherapy and relaxation.
  In the GHU office, we always have a candle burning to keep our workspace feeling homey and cozy!
  20) Ouai Wave Spray
  We’re huge fans of all-natural hair products, and this Ouai wave spray is great.
  It makes the perfect stocking stuffer for anyone who loves indulging in some all-natural haircare!
  21) Matcha Face Mask
  For the person on your list who lives to be pampered, this Matcha Obsessed face mask allows them to be pampered any day of the week in the comfort of their own bathroom!
  This face mask is all natural, great for all skin types, and will leave skin looking clear, even, blackhead-free and totally radiant!
  22) 2021 Planner + Calendar by ban.do
  One of our office favorites this year has been the planners by the brand ban.do. These 2021 planners come in tons of designs, from halographic to floral!
  They’re user-friendly, fun and come complete with inspirational phrases, stickers, and super cute design work. For the organized (or, soon-to-be organized) person in your life, a new planner is the perfect gift.
  23) Clarisonic Cleansing Brush
  This is, truly, an amazing gift. These sonic brushes have amazing results and totally change the appearance of your skin!
  They may seem a bit pricey, but they’re TOTALLY worth it, believe us!
  24) Essential Oil Diffuser
  If aromatherapy is of interest to the object of your gift-giving, this essential oil diffuser is the greatest gift money can buy.
  Just mix 10-20 drops with water in the diffuser and, BAM! Your entire room is full of the scent of the essential oil of your choice. On top of that, this diffuser is incredibly easy to use and to clean!
  For the Kitchen
  25) Justin’s Nut Butter
  Okay, this one may seem weird at a glance, but Justin’s products make the PERFECT stocking stuffer. They’ve got a wide range of nut butters that are gluten-free, dairy-free, non-GMO and totally delicious.
  They’re a little pricier than your average nut butter, which is why it’s a totally genius gift.
  26) Glass Tea Pot with Infuser Set
  This is not your ordinary teapot! This is a thoughtful & high-quality pyrex glass teapot set with many other essential accessories that make it an incredible gift set for any tea lover! 
  Avoid inadvertent over-brewing of tea just because you can’t detach strainer from the lid – unlike other teapots, this infuser can be removed & the lid re-locked!
  27) Embossed Rolling Pin
  This wooden rolling pin is engraved with a gingerbread man pattern that will emboss your cookies, pies and other baked goods!
  The baker in your life will LOVE how beautiful and professional their finished products look.
  28) Taza Chocolate
  This Taza chocolate collection can be used in hot or iced chocolate beverages, as a bold chocolate kick to your sauces or used in your sweet or savory recipes this holiday season! 
  This collection includes cinnamon, vanilla, Guajillo chili, salted almond, cacao puro and coffee! 
  These chocolate disks are USDA Organic, Kosher, non-GMO, gluten-free, dairy-free, soy-free and vegan! They’re the PERFECT gift for a health nut with a sweet tooth!
  29) Instant Pot
  Instant pots are all the rage nowadays and we totally know why! They make dinner come together in a snap making them a kitchen must-have.
  For the special cook in your life, this will be their favorite gift this year!
  30) Herb Keeper
  Keep your herbs fresh longer with this herb keeper that keeps their stems dipped in water for hydration!
  This is a great gift for someone in your life who loves to cook or uses herbs frequently! (It also makes a great gift for yourself, just saying.)
  It allows herbs to stand upright without squishing them and the machine fits perfectly inside your refrigerator!
  31) Paderno Vegetable Spiralizer
  Another name for this gadget every healthy chef needs in her kitchen is the “Zoodler.” Turn zucchini into low-calorie zoodles and toss in pasta sauces, stir-fries, casseroles, or on pizzas.
  But other fruits and veggies can get the spiralized treatment as well, so the possibilities are endless. You, my friend, have just become the most popular gift giver around the tree!
  32) Breville Juicer
  This juicer is a team favorite at GHU. Chris, herself, has been using a Breville for years, and she swears by it! It’s easy to use, easy to clean, and allows you to make fresh, healthy juices for the entire family!
  On top of that, it’s not break-the-bank expensive like so many other juicers on the market!
  33) Frozen Dessert Maker
  This super-affordable frozen dessert maker is the perfect gift for any health-minded foodie in your life.
  Think healthy sorbets and ice creams GALORE!
  34) Flavor Infusing Water Bottle 
  Flavor your water naturally by adding your own creative infusions of fresh herbs and seasonal fruit! The foodie in your life will absolutely love this; and this affordable, portable infuser is just the answer.
  Help your loved one (or yourself) hydrate and satisfy your flavor cravings at the same time!
  35) DIY Fermentation Crock
  From sauerkraut to kimchi, some of the most delicious foods in a vitamin-rich diet are fermented foods!
  This DIY Fermentation Crock is versatile and lets you make your favorite fermented foods! It has a 5 liter capacity for veggies, brine, seasonings, and allows you to ferment lots of your favorite nutrient-rich foods!
  It’s the perfect gift for a friend who eats clean, loves fermented foods, or simply loves to try new things!
  36) Yoga Cookie Cutters
  Yoga shaped cookie cutters will be a nice change of pace to the boxes of Lululemon gear under the tree for the dedicated yogi.
  I mean, what better stocking stuffer, could they really ask for?
  37) Vitamix Professional Series 750 Blender
  If you’re looking to splurge on a gift for a foodie in your life, the Vitamix is the way to go. This blender is AMAZING. Just go ahead and read a few reviews on it and you’ll have a hard time saying no.
  We LOVE ours and will never return to our old blender again.
  38) Umami Matcha Tea Set
  This Umami Matcha Tea Set is the PERFECT gift for the matcha lover in your life! This set will help make the most delicious matcha lattes, or anything matcha for that matter, without having to trek to a cafe.
  Give the gift of convenient, delicious mornings to your loved one this year!
  READ THIS NEXT: 7 Ways To Get Through The Holidays During Hard Times"