"Look! Look! It’s a bird, it’s a plane, it’s a…frustrated traveler who just wants to get to get her hotel and get her workout in! Travel can be exhausting but not in the good-kind of way. Standing in airport lines. Sitting on teeny tiny airline seats. Waiting around for luggage. And in the midst of it all, you don’t even have your regular workout to put some energy back into that weary body.
  Well, here is your solution and it can be done right in your hotel room! Or the hotel gym, if your lucky enough to have one. This five-move, full-body tabata workout will take you less than 20 minutes but will give you the energy to enjoy your trip and burn off some of those bad, airport-food calories (or hopefully good, restaurant food calories instead!) All you need is a little space and something to time seconds with.Here is the plan:
  
  This is a tabata-style workout so you will perform each exercise for 20 seconds hard, then rest for 10 seconds.Repeat for 4 times through, and then move to the next exercise. There is cardio, upper body, lower body and core, so fasten your seatbelt and get ready to burn off some serious calories!
  
   
  Skaters
  
  A) Start with your legs slightly wider than shoulder distance apart and arms at the sides.
  B) Bring one leg behind at a slight angle into a reverse lunge. The front knee will come to a 90-degree angle.
  C) Swing the arms in front of that bent knee and leap the back leg forward to switch sides in a skating motion. Arms alternate as you switch sides like a speed skater.
  Leap far and fast for 20 seconds, then rest for 10 second. Repeat for a total of 4 rounds.
  Push-Up Punch
  
  A) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists, your feet together, and your body in a straight line.
  B) Keeping your body straight, bend your arms to lower your body toward the floor.
  C) Straighten your arms to push your body back up into plank position as you punch your right arm forward.  Return your hand to the floor, lower back to the bottom of your push-up and repeat on the opposite side.
  Perform as many as you can for 20 seconds and then rest for 10 seconds. Repeat for a total of 4 rounds.
  High Knees
  
  A) Start standing with feet hip distance apart.
  B) Lift up one knee as high as it will go and raise the opposite arm, then switch quickly. Continue alternating arms and legs.
   Run fast for 20 seconds and then rest for 10 seconds. Repeat for a total of four rounds.
  Stiletto Squat
  
  A) Start standing and lift heels high like you’re wearing heels. Keeping your abs engaged slowly drop into a squat bringing your hips to knee height.
  B) Squeeze your glutes and return to you starting position.
  Do as many as you can for 20 seconds and then rest for 10 seconds. Repeat for a total of 4 rounds.
  Plank Jacks
  
  A) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists, your feet together, and your body in a straight line.
  B) Similar to the motion of a jumping jack, jump your feet wide keeping your buttocks down. Jump your feet back together.
   Jack fast but controlled for 20 seconds and then rest for 10 seconds. Repeat for a total of four rounds.
  READ THIS NEXT: 5 Anytime Bodyweight Exercises"