"The journey to weight loss can be full of obstacles and, yes, boredom. If you’re sick of doing the same old exercise routine day in and day out, it’s time to shake things up by shaking those hips.
  I’m talking about hula hooping, and yes, it can give you a fantastic workout. Switching up your workout routine can be one of the best ways to break through weight-loss plateaus, and a hula hoop workout is an easy way to do just that.
  How A Hula Hoop Workout Burns Calories
  A hula hoop workout compares pretty favorably with most other group classes in terms of heart rate and calorie burn. In fact, exercisers can expect similar results from a hula hoop workout as they’d get from boot camp classes, step aerobics, and cardio kickboxing—all of which meet fitness industry criteria for improving cardiovascular fitness.
  How Many Calories Can You Burn With A Hula Hoop Workout?
  You will be burning approximately 210 calories per 30-minute session. A hula hoop workout falls within accepted guidelines for exercise that can contribute to weight management.
  Can Hula Hooping slim your waist?
  While most people think of the hula hoop as a children’s toy that was all the rage back in the 1950s, modern hooping started primarily as a form of dance expression using a larger, weighted hula hoop. In recent years it has found its way back into the fitness world for a good reason. A hula hoop workout is an excellent solution to slim your waistline, but you must use a weighted hula hoop!
  Hula hoop workouts use hoops that are 37 to 45 inches in diameter and weigh 1 to 4 pounds. These larger, heavier hula hoops rotate around the body more slowly, actually making it easier to hoop while helping slim your waist by burning more calories and eliciting improved fitness benefits.
  A weighted hula hoop will run you around $45, but it’s worth it for a fun, new workout routine that you can actually have fun doing while losing weight. Pick up a weighted hula hoop today, and you’ll be surprised how quickly you pick the movement back up—and how much more fun it can make your weight loss journey.
  What is a Hula Hoop Workout Like?
  Trendy gyms have incorporated hooping into Pilates and yoga classes. A typical hula hoop workout generally includes a wide variety of hooping choreography and dance music into a fun and fast-paced group workout.
  Related: 6 Common Mistakes that Prevent Weight Loss
  What Muscles Does The Hula Hoop Workout Target?
  The hula hoop workout will primarily target your core muscles!
  My first encounter with a weighted hoop was a few years ago with the ladies from HOOPNOTICA. I did a hula hoop workout for 30 minutes straight, and my abs were so sore the next day….I was hooked!
  Along with your abs, your thighs and glutes are getting toned. Your lower back muscles are getting put to work as well by supporting and stabilize your posture while you spin your hoop.
  The best part is that you are also secretly sculpting your waistline while you are simultaneously laughing and doing aerobic exercises. It’s a little bit like riding a bike, the movement comes back to you in the first 10 minutes, and the weighted hoop is entirely different than the $5 hula hoop from the toy store.
  The hula hoop workout is a rhythmic, low-impact way to exercise your core.
  Hula Hoop Written Workout Plan: 
  4 Minute Warm-Up 
  
  1 Minute Jumping Jacks
  1 Minute Walking Lunges
  1 Minute Squats
  1 Minute Hula Hoop around your waist
  
  Take a 30 seconds rest before starting the bulk of the workout! Always remember to warm-up your body as needed. If you need to take a longer warm-up feel free to do the above circuit again, or add on any other movements to ensure your body of a proper warm-up!
  The Workout: 
  SET 1: 
  1 Minute – Hula Hoop around your waist
  1 Minute – Jump Through the Hoop (like a jump rope)
  1 Minute – 2 Feet Hops Forward and Back
  
  Step 1: Place the Hula Hoop down on the ground
  Step 2: Start by standing behind the Hula Hoop
  Step 3: Hop with 2 feet into the center of the Hula Hoop
  Step 4: Hop with 2 feet forward over the top of the Hula Hoop
  Step 5: Then repeat with 2 feet hopping back into the center of the Hula Hoop
  Step 6: Finally, jump with 2 feet back again, back to the starting position of behind the Hula Hoop
  
  Continue this pattern, hopping with 2 feet forward and back for the full minute
  Repeat Circuit x 2 Sets
  30 Second Rest
  SET 2: 
  1 Minute – Hula Hoop around your waist
  1 Minute – 2 Feet Hops Side to Side
  
  Step 1: Place the Hula Hoop down on the ground
  Step 2: Start by standing on one side of the Hula Hoop (right or left side; it does not matter)
  Step 3: Hop with 2 feet into the center of the Hula Hoop
  Step 4: Hop with 2 feet forward over the opposite side of the Hula Hoop
  Step 5: Then repeat with 2 feet hopping back into the center of the Hula Hoop
  Step 6: Finally, jump with 2 feet back again, back to the starting position of the side of the Hula Hoop
  
  Continue this pattern, hopping with 2 feet from side to side for the full minute
  1 Minute – Hula Hoop around your waist
  Repeat Circuit x 2 Sets
  30 Second Rest
  SET 3: 
  1 Minute – Hula Hoop around your waist
  1 Minute – Hula Hoop Squats
  
  Step 1: Start by standing with your feet shoulder width apart (squat position)
  Step 2: Hold the Hula Hoop overhead with straight arms (in an overhead press position)
  
  Tip/ Modification: If the overhead press position is too much with the squat, bring the arms slightly forward at an angled position. Or you can bring the Hula Hoop straight out in front of you. By bringing the Hula Hoop overhead, you are forced to use more core in your squat position.Step 3: Continuously perform squats for 1 straight minute, keeping the arms extended overhead
  
  1 Minute – Line Jumping
  
  Step 1: Place the Hula Hoop on the ground
  Step 2: Start behind the Hula Hoop
  Step 3: Place the right foot into the center of the Hula Hoop, then bring the left foot into the center next to the right foot.
  Step 4: Return the right foot back to the back of the Hula Hoop, allowing the left leg to follow along.
  Step 5; Continue this pattern in and out of the Hula Hoop for 1 straight minute.
  Line Jumping Pattern = Right Foot, Left Foot (into the center of the Hula Hoop), Right Foot, Left Foot (to the back of the Hula Hoop)
  
  1 Minute – Hula Hoop around your waist
  Repeat Circuit x 2 Sets
  READ THIS NEXT: 6 Plank Variations For Awesome Abs
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Cardio Hula Hoop Workout"