"We are inspired by feats of athleticism of all ranges at Get Healthy U. Whether that means finally completing your first full push-up, blasting your old 5K record out of the water, or not hitting snooze for any of your 5:30 AM workout classes during the week. But we were absolutely floored when we heard about the extraordinary athleticism currently on display by this group of women. Are you ready for this? Team SCA, a 13-woman sailing crew, is currently racing across the world in the nine-month long—yes, that’s not a typo—Volvo Ocean Race. This race is the toughest offshore sailing race in the world covering 39,379 nautical miles. That’s almost two laps around the equator! And Team SCA is the first all-female team in the past decade to compete. The race started in Alicante, Spain in October 2014 and stops in nine countries around the world. It finishes in Gothenburg, Sweden in June 2015. The race will make one stop in North America and arrive in Newport, RI between May 5-9, 2015. So who are these sailing stars?
  
  Team SCA on deck!| PHOTO CREDIT: Corinna Halloran/Team SCA
  The women of Team SCA range in age from 28 to 40 with different life experiences and different nationalities. Among the team are two moms with young sons, two sisters, and three Americans. They may have different backgrounds, but they all have a few important qualities in common: hard work and determination. The women had to train for two years in Spain prior to the start of the race. This training was in preparation for their bodies being pushed to the absolute physical and mental limits in every sort of weather condition imaginable. Picture having to play dodgeball against flying fish while navigating a 65-foot boat through rough waves. Or, imagine living in your bathroom for four days with the shower on and the door closed. Both true stories—and stories you and I probably don’t want to experience anytime soon.
  
  A small piece of Team SCA’s race training | PHOTO CREDIT: Rick Tomlinson/Team SCA
  
  A member of Team SCA displaying amazing athleticism and strength| PHOTO CREDIT: Anna-Lena Elled/Team SCA
  If you’re wondering why we took a break from sharing workouts, recipes, and healthy lifestyle tips, don’t forget that one of our main missions at GHU is inspiration. Think about Team SCA as one of our inspirational posters that has come to life. These women truly exemplify and embody our favorite quotes.
  
  Simply put, these women are real superheroes. Instead of talking celebrity gossip at the dinner table tonight (It’s addicting, and we’re all guilty of it!), tell your daughters the story of these 13 inspiring women from Team SCA. Follow the team’s amazing journey on their blog and on their Facebook page as a family and cheer them on their trek to the finish line.
  
  Keep supporting the women of Team SCA as the end of the Ocean Volvo Race draws near! | PHOTO CREDIT: Corinna Halloran/ Team SCA
  SCA believes that everyone should have the opportunity to live life to the fullest, and we are committed to creating value for people and nature. To champion these ideals, SCA launches Amazing Women Everywhere, to celebrate women who have a positive impact on others.
  The women of SCA’s all-female racing team, Team SCA, exemplify this spirit. They have come from all walks of life and backgrounds to take on one of the world’s most challenging endeavors, the Volvo Ocean Race. For nine months, their journey of hard work and determination will inspire millions around the world. Follow along with Team SCA on Facebook!
  We aim to gather thousands of stories from all over the world and inspire thousands more by illustrating that amazing women truly are everywhere. Visit http://www.teamsca.com/awemosaic to submit a photo of an amazing woman in your life.
  This is a sponsored conversation written by me on behalf of SCA. The opinions and text are all mine."