"Congratulations! You’ve made it half way through January! How’s that going for you? Generally at this point, one of two things occurs. Either your commitment has waned or you’re motivated for more. Either way, this 15-minute jumpstart workout will be exactly what you need to get back or stay on track.
  The resistance band is a simple little tool and produces maximum results. It’s easy to use, while at the same time, an excellent challenge to step up your game to the next level. The exercises are similar to others you’ve done, but the band gives just enough of a twist to make things a little more interesting. Of course, you are always welcome to revisit the January Jumpstart Week 1 Workout or the January Jumpstart Week 2 Workout.
  The layout of this workout is the same as the others: A three minute warm-up followed by six exercises at 45 seconds a piece. You’ll get 15 seconds between each exercises to rest and, after completing the set, you go through just one more time to make a complete 15-minute cardio and strength workout.
  
  Start with this easy three minute warm-up:  For one minute, lightly squat down and up like you are sitting back in a chair and then standing. For the second minute, jog lightly or march. Finish the warm-up with one minute of jumping jacks then go directly to the first exercises.
  Resistance Band Side-to-Side Squat
  
  1) Stand both feet on band hip width apart and hold handles next to hip bones.
  2) Take a big step right and sit back into a squat, then bring left foot to right foot as you stand.
  3) Take a big step left and sit back into a squat, then bring right foot to left foot as you stand. That is a total of one repetition.
  Continue squatting and moving right to left for 45 seconds, then rest for 15 and move on to the next exercise.
  Resistance Band Mid-Back Pull
  
  1) Standing with feet shoulder width apart, grab the handles of the band with each hand, then loop the band once or twice more around each hand to desired tightness.
  2) Holding hands straight out in front of you at shoulder height, pull the band open as arms go out to the sides and band comes in towards chest. Keep shoulders down.
  3) Slowly release hands back to start position and repeat.
  Continue pulling for 45 seconds, then rest for 15 and move to the next exercise. Set your band down.
  Skaters
  
  A) Start with your legs slightly wider than shoulder distance apart and arms at the sides.
  B) Bring one leg behind at a slight angle into a reverse lunge. The front knee will come to a 90-degree angle.
  C) Swing the arms in front of that bent knee and leap the back leg forward to switch sides in a skating motion. Arms alternate as you switch sides like a speed skater.
  Continue leaping for 45 seconds then rest for 15 and grab your band for the next exercise.
  Resistance Band Chest Press
  
  1) Place right foot down on center of the band and bring handles to shoulders with palms facing forward. Hold elbows slightly behind body.
  2) Standing tall with abs tight, press arms straight out in front of your chest and shoulders then slowly pull elbows back.
  Repeat presses for 45 seconds then rest for 15 while setting your band of to the side for the next exercise.
  Burpees
  
  A) Start in a plank position with arms and legs long, hands shoulder distance apart.
  B) Walk or jump both feet between your hands coming into a low squat. Jump straight up as high as possible, land, and come back to your plank position.
  Repeat burpees for 45 seconds followed by a 15 second rest. Grab your band for the next exercise.
  Resistance Band Tricep Shoulder Press Backs
  
  1) Stand both feet on band hip width apart and hold handles with palms facing behind you and arms long next to your sides.
  2) Bend slightly at the knees and hinge forward keeping abs tight.
  3) Press arms straight back as far as you can keeping shoulders down.
  4) Release arms slowly forward next to legs but not in front of your legs.
  Repeat with controlled movement for 45 seconds, then rest for 15.
  Now, go back to the top (skipping the warm-up) and repeat the exercises one more time for a full 15-minute challenge!"