"We here at Team Get Healthy U know that proper hydration is essential for good health but sometimes drinking eight glasses of plain water a day can be a challenge, and frankly, a little boring. Well, let us introduce you to our favorite hydration solution: homemade fruit and herb infused water!
  This nutrient-packed drink takes less than five minutes to put together and will have you happily refilling your glass all day.
  Trust me, you’ll find this way more energizing and refreshing than fake flavored waters filled with food dye. (Oh yeah, and they’re pretty!)
  What You’ll Need:
  
  1 quart mason jar or pitcher
  Still or sparkling water
  Wooden spoon
  Knife
  Ingredients for flavor combination of your choice (listed below).
  
  How To Make Fruit and Herb Infused Water:
  
  Gather the ingredients from whichever fruit and herb flavor combination you decide to make (options below.) Feel free to experiment with your own combinations, as well. Watermelon Rosemary, Mint-Cucumber-Lemon, and Tangerine-Fennel-Thyme are all delicious!
  Put the sliced fruit, and herbs, and/or spices in the bottom of your glass jar or pitcher and lightly squish with a wooden spoon to release the fruit juices for flavor.
  Fill the jar with still or sparkling water. If you’d like a little extra sweetness after tasting, add a natural sweetener like honey or agave.
  Drink and enjoy now or leave in the fridge overnight to get the max taste!Fruit and Herb Flavor Combinations:
  
   
  Raspberry-Lime-Mint
  
  1 small lime, sliced
  1 pint raspberries
  1/3 cup fresh mint leaves
  
  Blackberry Sage
  
  1 cup blackberries
  1/4 cup fresh sage leaves
  
  Ginger-Pineapple-Orange
  
  ½ cup pineapple, cubed
  1 small orange, sliced
  1 tablespoon freshly grated ginger
  
  Experiment with your own flavor combinations, too!
  The possibilities are endless, and getting enough water every day will help you feel more energized, alert, and happy.
  READ THIS NEXT: How To Make Your Own Kombucha"