"Whether you’re just getting started strength training or you’ve been in the groove for a while, it’s important to be educated on how you can get the most out of your workouts. For busy lifestyles, it makes sense to train multiple muscle groups in one session instead of one muscle group at a time.
  One of the most common questions people have when they first start strength training is what muscle groups to work out together and how often to train each one.
  First, let’s look at the basic minimum guidelines for resistance training given by The American College of Sports Medicine (“ACSM”):
  
  Do some kind of strength training a minimum of twice a week.
  Healthy adults perform at least one set of 8-12 repetitions
  8-10 exercises should be performed to target the major muscle groups: Chest, back, shoulders, biceps, triceps, abdomen, quadriceps and hamstrings
  
  Training Opposing Muscle Groups
  One of the most common ways to lift weights and certainly a favorite of weight lifters everywhere is to train opposing muscle groups. These opposing muscles are also called agonist and antagonists and they work together for many of the movements we make. Simply put, you are working both the front and the back part of one particular area of the body on the same day.
  How do you separate muscle groups when working out? The goal is to train the opposing muscle groups in the same session.
  And because you need 48 hours of rest for the muscle you work, it is convenient to follow up the next day with a different part of the body. This gives your muscle groups time to recover.
  Major Muscle Groups to Workout Together
  Here are a few popular options for which muscle groups to work out together:
  
  Chest and Back
  Quads and Hamstrings
  Biceps, Triceps and Shoulders
  Glutes and Abdominals
  
  Click on the bulleted list above to quickly jump to each individual strength training workout.
  Like we mentioned, these are a few popular options for certain muscle groups to workout together, but this is by no means an exclusive list. Nevertheless, we have created the below four workouts that engage complimentary muscle groups together.
  
  Muscle Groups to Workout Together
  1. Chest & Back Workout
  
  Whether you’re getting ready for tank top season or just want to feel good about your upper body, this workout is going to be it for you! But just remember, you have to lift weights in order to strengthen and tone your arms, just like you do your lower body!
  These upper body movements will round out your chest and back muscles, focusing on the front and back side of your upper body!
  Equipment: Medium-to-heavy set of dumbbells. I tend to use 12 lb dumbbells when I work my upper body. Feel free to use anywhere between 8 lb and 15 lb dumbbells. Choose the weight that allows you to complete the workout and is still a little challenging!
  Instructions: This upper body workout will be done in a circuit type format. Complete each exercise for a total of 45 seconds and rest for 15 seconds. The 15-second rest is to catch your breath and get you ready for the next movement.
  1. Chest Fly
  
  Here’s how to perform chest flys:
  
  Lie on back with knees bent and feet on floor and hold dumbbells straight up over chest.
  With a slight bend in the elbow, slowly open arms wide out to the side. Squeeze your chest as you bring    the weights back together at the top. Repeat for desired number of reps.
  
  2. Renegade Row
  
  Here’s how to do a renegade row:
  
  Begin in a full plank with dumbbells in hands, arms extended, and on toes. (kneeling variation is fine if you are not able to do a full plank) Engage your abdominals drawing the belly inward towards your spine.
  Pull right dumbbell up toward right hip bone keeping weight close to your side. Slowly return it to the floor and repeat with the left dumbbell.
  
  This will have your chest, shoulders, and triceps burning – and your heart rate up
  3. Push-Up
  
  The push-up targets several muscle groups all in one efficient exercise. Here’s how to do a push-up:
  
  Begin in a plank position with hands below shoulders, legs long behind you, and body contracted to hold your spine in a straight line.
  With elbows pointing slightly back, bend elbows and slowly begin to lower your body until you are just above the ground. Keep your gaze over your fingertips and body in a straight line.
  As you exhale, tighten your belly and push yourself back up to a plank position. That is one repetition.
  
  4. Reverse Grip Double Arm Rows 
  
  Here’s how to do reverse grip double arm rows:
  1) Start with legs together and sit back into a slight squat engaging abdominals. Arms are in front of the body holding dumbbells at hip height with palms facing the ceiling.
  2) Draw elbows back past hips gently hugging the side body so you feel lats and triceps engage and return forward with control.
  This exercise targets the back muscles which is an often-overlooked muscle group in women.
  5. Chest Press
  
  Here’s how to perform a chest press:
  
  Lie on back with knees bent and feet on the floor. Elbows are bent and dumbbells start at shoulder height.
  Extend arms fully pressing away from your chest. Slowly lower to start position.
  
  Your chest, shoulders, and triceps get major muscle-building benefits from this move.
  6. Overhead Pull
  
  This targets the shoulders and triceps muscle group. Here’s how to perform an overhead pull:
  
  Lie on back with knees bent and feet on the floor. Arms are extended above chest to start. Engage your abdominals.
  Lower dumbbells past your head keeping arms mostly straight with elbows slightly bent. Keeping abdominals tight raise dumbbells back to start. Low back should stay firm against the floor throughout.
  
  Repeat the circuit 3 times through for a complete 20-minute upper body workout!
  Related: What’s The Difference Between Muscle Strength and Muscle Endurance?
  
  2. Quads & Hamstring Workout
  
  Did someone say leg day?! Lower body strength training workouts are some of the most commonly searched workouts on the internet because who doesn’t love a good leg burn?
  The goal of this workout is to target the quad and hamstring muscles together and to find fatigue in your lower body. If you get to the last couple of reps and you feel like you can’t do one more, that’s exactly where you should be. If you come to the last couple of reps and feel like you could do more, pick up heavier weights! Bringing to you a Lower Body Max Out Workout follow along below!
  Equipment: You will need a set of medium-to-heavy dumbbells. I would personally grab a set of 12 or 15 lb dumbbells but anywhere between 8 lb and 20 lb dumbbells would be advised depending on your level of fitness.
  Instructions: This workout will consist of 6 total lower body movements (3 focused on the quads and 3 focused on the hamstring, the back side of your leg). Complete 12 repetitions per exercise and repeat the entire workout a total of 3 times!
  
  Basic Squat
  
  
  Here’s how to perform a basic squat:
  
  Stand tall with your feet hip distance apart. Your hips, knees, and toes should all be facing forward.
  Bend your knees and extend your buttocks backward as if you are going to sit back into a chair. Make sure that you keep your knees behind your toes and your weight in your heels.
  Rise back up and repeat.
  
  2. Deadlift
  
  Here’s how to perform a deadlift:
  
  Start standing with feet hip distance apart and dumbbells resting in front of thighs.
  Tighten your abdominals and keep a flat back as you bend the knees slightly, lowering the dumbbells towards the floor.
  Squeeze the glutes and use your hamstrings and legs to lift and return to your upright position.
  
  3. Alternating Lunges (6 reps per side)
  
  Here’s how to perform alternating lunges:
  
   Stand tall with your feet hip distance apart.
  Take a large step forward and lower your body toward the floor.  Both legs should be bent at a 90-degree angle at the bottom of the lunge. Push off front leg to rise back up to start, and repeat on the other side.
  
  4. Single-Leg Hamstring Bridge (Left Side)
  
  Here’s how to perform single-leg hamstring bridge:
  
  Lie on back with bent knees hip distance apart, and feet flat on mat stacked under the knees. Extend one leg long towards the ceiling.
  Squeeze glutes and lift hips off the mat into a bridge. Lower and lift the hips for desired number of reps then repeat on other side.
  
  5. Pistol Squat
  
  Here’s how to perform pistol squats:
  
  Stand with feet hip distance apart and extend 1 leg long on front of the body.
  Bring hands to hips or the front of your body for balance. Sit back into a squat with weight in the heel of the foot, then slowly stand back up using your glute and hamstring muscles. Repeat for desired number of reps and switch sides.
  
  6. Single-Leg Hamstring Bridge (Right Side) (see instructions above)
  Repeat the entire circuit 3 times!
  
  3. Bicep, Tricep & Shoulder Workout
  
  The term “HIIT” workout is often used for cardiovascular workouts but did you know that it can also be used in upper body workouts as well? In this upper body HIIT workout, I am going to show you how quickly and efficiently you can work your upper body. These target muscle groups like back, biceps, and abs in one efficient training program.
  Using dumbbells and your bodyweight, we are going to HIIT it hard and burn out your upper body!
  Equipment: A light to heavy set of dumbbells. I would use anywhere between 10-12 lb dumbbells. Choose a weight that you can hold onto for a 20-second interval.
  Instructions: For each of these exercises you are going to go as hard as you can for a working interval of 20 seconds, then rest for 10 seconds before going into the next move. Repeat the entire training sequence again for a total of 5 intervals for a 20-minute workout.
  Block 1: 20 seconds each/ 10 seconds in between to rest
  
  
  Bicep Curl
  Push Up Punch
  Hammer Curl 
  
  Block 2: 20 seconds each/ 10 seconds in between to rest
  
  
  Tricep Kickback
  Tricep Dips
  Overhead Tricep Extension
  
  Block 3: 20 seconds each/ 10 seconds in between to rest
  
  
  Overhead Shoulder Press
  Shoulder Front Raise
  Renegade Rows
  
  Complete the total circuit 5 rounds and you will have completed a 20-minute upper body workout toning the biceps, triceps, and shoulders all together!
  
  4. Glute & Abdominal Workout
  
  Glutes and Abs are two of the most popular muscle groups to train together. Try this 10-Minute Butt and Ab workout as a stand-alone quick and efficient workout or add this onto the end of a leg day workout as a “burnout.”
  Instructions: The workout consists of 6 total exercises – 2 glute focused movements and 2 abdominal focused exercises. You will alternate between the lower body focused movement and the abdominal focused movement and finish with two burnout movements that combine core and legs together!
  Circuit – you will complete each of the below movements for 30 seconds each completing the full circuit 4 times through!
  
  
  Cross Behind Lunge – 30 Seconds
  Forearm Plank – 30 Seconds
  Glute Kicker – 30 Seconds
  Full Sit Up – 30 Seconds
  
  Burnout – after completing the above circuit 4 times through you will end with the following 2 exercises to “burnout.” Complete the burnout circuit 2 times through to complete the 10-minute circuit!
  
  
  Burpees – 30 Seconds
  Superman – 30 Second Hold
  
  Want to pair all of these groups together? Here’s an easy schedule to train opposing muscle groups on a weekly basis.
  Sample muscle group training schedule: (4 days a week)
  Monday
  
  Upper Body – Chest and Back
  
  Tuesday:
  
  Legs – Glutes and Hamstrings
  
  Thursday:
  
  Upper Body – Shoulders and Arms
  
  Saturday:
  
  Lower Body – Glutes and Abdominals
  
  READ THIS NEXT: Bodyweight vs. Weighted Workouts: Which Is Better?"