"Your fitness is as close as your fingertips–with my six favorite fitness apps. The good news about technology is that it connects us to fitness accountability tools 24/7. You now can have a workout buddy, trainer and accountability partner at all times in the form of an app! From games to entertainment, our phones can support healthy lifestyles. So grab your mobile device and try out six of my favorite apps!
  App # 1
  101 Revolutionary Ways to Be Healthy App!
  
  iPhone and iPad
  
  From Experience Life magazine, Being Healthy is a Revolutionary Act (or App!). This app nudges you toward making healthier choices and having a healthier attitude, while encouraging you to get strong in the process. This app has 101 ways to get healthy you can peruse at your own pace, or click on the “Surprise Me” button for a randomly selected tip. You also can read more than 400 in-depth healthy articles—from nutrition to stress management—at your leisure. Geared for men and women of all ages, the embedded browser sharing link lets you share Experience Life articles with family and friends via email, or on Facebook and Twitter, without leaving the app. It is designed to inspire positive change, spark a healthy revolution and create a world full of healthy, happy people. I love this app because that’s my mission too!
  App #2 
  MyFitnessPal 
  
  iPhone, iPad, Android, Blackberry, Windows Phone7
  
  Lots of women who work out with me love to use the MyFitnessPal app to track what they are eating! I’ve tried this app for myself and it’s great! Studies show (repeatedly!) that people lose more weight when they write down and track what they are eating. This app makes it easy to log in your food because its database lists more than 1,497,000 foods. Plus, it remembers your favorite foods that you eat regularly so you can easily select them. Track your calories, exercise and use its community forum for support. It’s a free app!
  Related: How To Use Social Media For Motivation
  App #3 
  MapMyFitness 
  
  iPhone, iPad, Android, Blackberry
  
  This app helps me map out my walks and runs when I’m at home or when traveling. Perfect for outdoor enthusiasts, you can choose your route and the distance you want to run or walk and you won’t get lost!  MapMyFITNESS uses built-in GPS technology to track your outdoor fitness activities. Step out your front door, hit the road or trail and this app will effortlessly mark out your path along an interactive map and record essential metrics including duration, distance, pace, speed and elevation.
  It also includes a nutrition tracker that lets you keep track of how many calories you’re eating. It’s free, but many additional services and features are available if you pay a monthly fee to become a member of the MapMyFitness community.
  App #4 
  Authentic Yoga with Deepak Chopra and Tara Stiles 
  
  iPhone or iPad
  
  This is a practical and fun yoga app. Wherever you are, you can do yoga! Use this app to build strength, flexibility and reduce stress with various yoga poses. Alternative medicine expert Deepak Chopra offers his healthy living insights and Tara Stiles uses video to demonstrate various poses that will appeal to both beginners and more experienced yoga fans. There’s a portable index of yoga pose videos and photography to illustrate how to get into more complicated poses step by step. Price: $1.99.
  App #5
  Super Stretch Yoga
  
  iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch
  
  Being a mom, I can’t exclude the Super Stretch Yoga app; a way to have a whole lot of fun with your kids. Developed by national yoga educator Jessica Rosenberg, the Super Stretch character introduces kids to his friends and their yoga poses using animation and video examples. Kids demonstrate the poses and it’s so entertaining that kids may not notice they are exercising! There are 12 yoga poses for all levels and ages, animated flashcards and inspiring music. Plus, kids can learn about the importance of moving and breathing. Make Namaste part of your kids’ day with this family-friendly app. The app is $1.99.
  Be healthy on the go with these fun fitness apps!
   READ THIS NEXT: 101 Fitness Tips That Rock"