"So you’re on the road for a week or two and missing your regular workouts agin. If you’re lucky, you’re in a hotel with a clean workout facility that motivates you to make time for exercise. You know the kind? You walk in, they hand you a cold bottle of water, and a smile. When you leave, the fresh fruit and cool towels are sitting by the door…. BUT, more likely you’re in a place that advertises its “fitness center” quite nicely only to discover it’s just an old hotel room turned broken treadmill storage with a few dumbbells in the corner to make it legit. Worst case scenario there is nothing available at all and you don’t know the town well enough to venture out for a run or walk. Thus, travel seems like a great excuse to skip those workouts!
  Of course if it’s just one trip, what’s the harm? But what if you are a regular traveler? Or what if you are hoping to splurge on some extra fun dinners and drinks and really hoped for a way to work off the extra calories? Good news! Our 10-Minute No-Excuses Travel Workout is here to save the day! This workout can be done in that horrible treadmill storage room or better yet, in the comfort of your own hotel room. You don’t need ANY equipment and it doesn’t take much space! These five simple cardio and strength moves will give you everything you need to burn calories and build muscle. So take this along and bon voyage!
  10-Minute Travel Workout
  Here’s the plan: 
  
  Go through each exercise as directed. In 10 minutes, you will have a complete cardio and strength workout.If you’re feeling especially motivated, go through it a second time for a 20-minute fat blast!
  
  Butt Kicks
  A) Start standing tall and bring one heel off the floor towards your glutes, the opposite hand comes up towards you shoulder like running arms, then switch to the other side.
  B) This exercise is working your hamstrings so you should feel this in the glutes and the back of the legs as you pull the heel in.
  Perform for 1 minutes slow, then 1 more minute hard and fast until you’re breathless.
  Push-Up Punch
  A) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists, your feet together, and your body in a straight line.
  B) Keeping your body straight, bend your arms to lower your body toward the floor.
  C) Straighten your arms to push your body back up into plank position as you punch your right arm forward.  Return your hand to the floor, lower back to the bottom of your push-up and repeat on the opposite side.
  Try for 12-15  push-ups.  If you are struggling, drop to your knees to finish.
  Related: The Best 10-Minute Workouts For Busy Days
  Power Skips
  A) Start standing with feet hip distance apart.
  B) Lift up one knee as high as it will go and raise the opposite arm. Jump straight up and switch sides forming a skip. Continue alternating arms and legs.
  Perform for 1 minute slow, then 1 more minute hard and fast until you are breathless.
  Kick Through Lunge
  
  A) Stand tall with your feet hip distance apart. Take a large step backward with the right foot and lower your body toward the floor. Both legs should be bent at a 90-degree angle at the bottom of the lunge.
  B) Straighten your left leg and kick your right foot forward to hip height or higher if possible.
  Perform for 1 minute with right foot kicking through and  1 minute with left foot kicking through. No break in between.
  Army Crawl Plank
  
  A) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists, your feet together, and your body in a straight line.
  B) Bend your left arm so that it is now in forearm plank position.
  C) Then bend your right arm so you are in a full forearm plank position.
  D) Lift your left hand and place it on the mat directly below your shoulder as you push through your palm to lift yourself.
  E) As you reach the top, place your right palm on the floor under your right shoulder and push back into a full plank.  Repeat, leading with the right arm.
  Try to go for one full minute. Keep your hips steady by tightening your abdominals the entire time.
  If you have time and want more, take a drink and a breather, and then repeat!
  
  READ THIS NEXT: Grab A Chair Workout"