"If there was something you could do to lose weight, beat fatigue, and even look younger, you would do it, right? And what if that something was free and took almost no effort on your part? Would I have your attention then? If so, you’ll want to read on, because that little weight loss secret and overall health saver comes in the form of—drum roll please—water, and we’ve got a one week hydration challenge to make sure you’re getting enough of it.
  
  I know, I know, you’ve heard it a million times before, right? “Drink plenty of water” may have become a health and fitness platitude, but it’s for a good reason: water is the best and cheapest way to improve your health, lose weight and just feel better. There are so many benefits of drinking more water, including the following:
  
  Flushes toxins out of vital organs
  Helps carry nutrients to your cells
  Helps your digestive system run more efficiently
  Improves skin elasticity and appearance (think: less wrinkles!)
  Improves energy
  Reduces hunger
  Regulates body temperature
  Lubricates and cushions joints
  Helps the brain manufacture hormones and neurotransmitters
  Protects your spinal cord and other sensitive tissues
  
  Studies have also demonstrated links between dehydration and a whole host of unwanted physical and mental symptoms like fatigue, poor digestion, and even a depressed mood. So before you dismiss drinking enough water as another “nice to have” on your health to-do list along with daily flossing, consider this: in a living, moving body, skeletal muscle is more than 70 percent water. In order to put healthy, functioning muscle on your body, water is a necessity! And since we know muscle burns more calories and helps to ultimately burn more fat, well—you can follow that link yourself!
  Related: 7 Reasons To Drink More Water
  So just how much should you drink each day? On average, you should be drinking AT LEAST 8-10 glasses of water a day. If you exercise regularly, add another glass or two to that. If you think you are drinking enough, try this trick to make sure you are drinking as much as you think you are. If you already know you are falling woefully short, then JOIN US in this one week hydration challenge!
  Check out even more awesome water facts below!
  
  CREDIT: StudyMedicineEurope.com
  Ready to drink more water? Just print off our downloadable chart and put it where you will see it the most: on your fridge, in your car or maybe at your desk. Cross off one water glass for each 8 oz. of water you drink. Can you count soda, juice or milk? Uh, negative. Can you count green tea or coffee? In theory, one or two cups a day would be acceptable, but consider the whole point of this challenge: to drink more water! If you struggle with the taste of plain water, then turn your lemons into lemon water! Just buy a few lemons and add them to your water to make drinking it more palatable and for all the added health benefits of lemon water. Or get even more motivated and try a variety of fruit and herb infused waters. So what do you say? Are you ready to make one simple but impactful change for your health? Grab few friends and let’s get started. Print off the chart below to get in your 64 oz of water a day!
  
  Click Here to Get The Printable Hydration Challenge Chart!READ THIS NEXT: How To Make Fruit and Herb Infused Water"