"Are you ready to take your plank to the next level? Then throw in a pair of dumbbells, add a dash of cardio, and you have one fat blasting core workout that will leave you feeling better than ever! This workout is going to turn it up a notch by getting your heart rate up while strengthening your core like never before and leave you saying,  “Plank you very much!”
  For this workout you will need a light to medium set of dumbbells and a mat. Each exercise goes for 30 seconds. You’ll take a quick breather and shake out your arms at the end and then repeat the entire thing once more.
  Renegade Row
  
  A) Begin in a full plank with dumbbells in hands, arms extended, and on toes. (Kneeling variation is fine if you are not able to do a full plank.) Engage your abdominals drawing the belly inward towards your spine.
  B) Pull one elbow up towards the ceiling hugging your side body feeling the back of your arm engage and return the dumbbell to the floor with control. Alternate right and left arms.
  Perform for 30 seconds.
  Plank To Upright Row
  
  A) Start in a plank position with arms and legs long, hands shoulder distance apart and on dumbbells.
  B) Walk or jump both feet outside your hands coming into a low squat like your sitting back into a chair. Press your weight back onto your heels. Squeeze glutes and then come to standing.
  C) Pull dumbbells up slowly to chest height letting elbows point out to the sides as you lift dumbbells. Then straighten arms with control.
  Perform for 30 seconds.
  Side Plank Arm Extension
  
  A) Bring your body into one straight line on the floor stacking legs, hips, and your shoulder directly over your elbow into a forearm plank. Lift hips with dumbbell resting hovering over the floor. (You can modify this plank by bending your lower knee if necessary.)
  B) Raise the dumbbell directly over your shoulder keeping abdominals engaged and lower with control working your arms, and entire core. Repeat.
  Perform for 30 seconds on each side.
  Plank To Chair Squat
  
  A) Start in a plank position with arms and legs long, hands shoulder distance apart.
  B) Walk or jump both feet outside your hands coming into a low squat like your sitting back into a chair pressing your weight back onto your heels. Reach arms above the head and keeping the back straight and chest lifted. Bring hands to floor to return to start.
  Perform for 30 seconds.
  Modified Side Plank Crunch
  
  A) Begin lying on the floor with your forearm flat on the floor, and shoulder stacked above your elbow. The bottom knee is bent on the mat and top leg is long.
  B) Engage your core and raise your body up, keeping your lower knee on the floor and your body in a straight line from your head to your feet. Keep your abdominals engaged and try to to not let your hips rise or drop.
  C) Raise your top arms up towards the ceiling. The top leg also lifts up bending your knee in towards your shoulder as you lift your leg. At the same time, bend your upper arm and bring your elbow toward the knee you are lifting. Return to modified plank position.
  Perform for 30 seconds on each side
  Plank Jacks
  
  A) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists, your feet together, and your body in a straight line.
  B) Similar to the motion of a jumping jack, jump your feet wide keeping your buttocks down. Jump your feet back together.
  [Tip: Make sure your body doesn’t sag or bob up an down. Keep abs tight and spine straight!]
  Perform for 30 seconds.
  Take one minute to get a sip of water and shake out your arms so you can go through the routine one more time!
  Click here for another challenging plank workout!
  Make sure that you subscribe to our newsletter, so that you don’t miss out on all things Get Healthy U.
  For more tips, advice, yummy recipes and workouts, check out our Facebook page and follow us on Pinterest.
  We’d love to hear what you think of this post, or what you’d like to see on our site. Leave us a comment in the section below."