"Of all the areas on our body that seem to hold onto stubborn fat, the underside of the arms can be the most bothersome. You want to go sleeveless and feel confident, but suddenly notice a little jiggle or arm-flab when you wave goodbye to your kids on the bus. Don’t worry! There’s an easy strategy for making bat wings beat it, and this is it: target the triceps.
  Your triceps are the largest muscles in your arms, but they often get left behind in your workouts. You’re busy focusing on your biceps and shoulders with bicep curls or overhead presses. And normal push-ups are AMAZING for toning your upper body, but you’ll need to do some different variations if you want to specifically target those triceps and say goodbye to arm flab. As you may already know, the tricep is a made up of three heads: the long head, the lateral head, and the medial head. All three of these heads work together to create the sculpted horseshoe-looking muscle we all love the look of. Therefore, it’s important to do a variety of tricep exercises to work all three heads and strengthen and sculpt the muscle.
  These seven exercises are specifically designed to target your triceps and tone up your arms so they’re sleek, sexy, and strong. You’ll need a set of dumbbells for these moves and a mat or carpeted surface. Perform these moves 2-3 times per week to start seeing results, and as always, get in your cardio, too!
  1. Tricep Side Push-Up
  
  Click here to learn how to do a tricep side push-up. 
  2. Tricep Overhead Extensions
  
  Click here to learn how to do tricep overhead extensions.
  Related: Yoga Workout For Strong, Sculpted Arms
  3. Renegade Rows
  
  Click here to learn how to do renegade rows.
  4. Side Plank With Arm Extension
  
  Click here to learn how to do a side plank with arm extension.
  5. Tricep Dips
  
  Click here to learn how to do tricep dips.
  6. Tricep Kickbacks
  
  Click here to learn how to do tricep kickbacks. 
  7. Crab Walk
  
  Click here to learn how to do the crab walk.
  READ THIS NEXT: 5 Bodyweight Moves For Buff Arms"