"Have you seen the large balls that have been popping up in offices and school rooms across the country. They are used to replace the chair and give the user a little core work while sitting, as well as keeping the mind focused and engaged due to the physical work involved. You are likely aware that these “stability balls” or “fitness balls” were not designed to be used as a chair, though that use is a brilliant take on a simple idea. Rather, the stability ball is an excellent workout tool that can serve as a weight bench, a thigh master, a tool to pass back and forth, or a balance challenge like no other.
  The next five exercises take familiar moves onto the ball to create a new, more demanding workout that the whole body will benefit from. In fact, you will notice how much core work is involved in each of the moves presented. You will need a set of hand weights and a stability ball. To choose the proper ball size, sit on top of the ball and look for your knees to extend straight out or slightly below your hip bones. If your butt sinks lower than your knees, choose a slightly larger ball.
  Perform each of the next five exercises for 12-15 repetitions. Once you finish the routine, repeat a second time.
  Stability Ball Side-To-Side Lunge
  
  1) Stand tall and hold ball between hands in front of you.
  2) Step right foot out wide and bend right knee to a 90 degree angle.
  3) Push off right foot to step back in.
  4) Step left foot out wide and bend left knee to a 90 degree angle.
  5) Push off left foot to step back in. This is one repetition.
  Perform 12-15 repetitions.
   
  Stability Ball Chest Fly
  
  1) Hold a pair of dumbbells close to your chest and place your shoulder blades and head on top of the ball with the rest of your body in a table top position. Feet should be hip distance apart.
  2) Raise dumbbells together straight above chest, palms facing in.
  3) Slowly lower arms out to the side with a slight bend in your elbow, until elbows are about chest level.
  4) Squeeze chest and bring hands back together at the top.
  Complete 12-15 repetitions.
   
  Stability Ball Overhead Lat Pull
  
  1) Hold a pair of dumbbells close to your chest and place your shoulder blades and head on top of the ball with the rest of your body in a table top position. Feet should be hip distance apart.
  2) Raise dumbbells together straight above chest, palms facing in.
  3) Slowly lower arms behind the back of your head, keeping only a slight bend in your elbows.
  4) Squeeze your lats as you pull arms back to start position above chest.
  Perform 12-15 repetitions.
   
  Stability Ball Preacher Curl
  
  1) Holding dumbbells, place your chest on top of stability ball, lengthen legs behind you, and drape your arms over the front of the ball.
  2) Bending at the elbows, curl dumbbells up to your shoulders and slowly return back down. Keep body straight and core tight throughout.
   Perform 12-15 repetitions.
   
  Stability Ball Tricep Kickback
  
  1) Holding dumbbells, place your chest on the ball with arms draped alongside the ball and legs extended out to the floor behind you. Keep head in line with your spine.
  2) Pull your elbow up to a 90 degree angle for start position.
  3) Press dumbbells back to lengthen arms, squeezing triceps.
  4) Release dumbbells back down to start position.
  Perform 12-15 repetitions.
  Take a moment to get water and repeat the entire sequence again.
  READ THIS NEXT: Use The Ball, Lose The Belly"