"This is a sponsored conversation written by me on behalf of TomTom®. The opinions and text are all mine. 
  We’ve all been there. You get fired up to get yourself in shape, to lose weight and eat healthy so you hit up the gym, plan healthy meals for yourself and then a few weeks (er… days) later, you’ve lost all motivation. You’re tired, sore and just want a donut. Been there? More often than not, this is the way things go for people, you work out consistently for a few weeks, maybe even months, and then you lose it. You get back into it but then lose it again. It’s a constant back-and-forth game ridden with guilt and frustration. But would you believe me if I told you there could be one simple thing you could do to continue to motivate yourself (besides following Get Healthy U, of course)?! It’s a fitness tracker.
  Related: 101 Fitness Tips That Rock
  The secret to weight loss and healthy living is accountability. I know it sounds silly, but I’ve seen fitness trackers make a huge difference in people’s fitness journey. A fitness tracker is a built-in accountability partner, it helps educate you on what you’re really doing (not what you think you’re doing) and, ultimately, it’s super fun! In a way, it’s a constant wearable reminder that won’t lie or skew the truth. And fitness trackers have this way of giving you that extra kick in the butt you need! I know so many people who have done laps walking around their basement at 9pm to get in their steps for the day. But more than just tracking your steps, today’s fitness trackers do all sorts of things to educate and motivate you to get moving and be your healthiest you. No fitness tracker is 100% accurate, but if you’re looking to increase your fitness level and keep on track, then a fitness tracker may be just what you need.
  
  Last week I got the TomTom® Touch fitness tracker and I’m committing to testing it out over the next month to see how it works and compares to others. I’m pretty excited! Though working out is already part of my daily routine (perks of being a trainer!), simple little changes like the TomTom® Touch make me more motivated to kick things up a notch!
  
  My TomTom® Touch is black, though it does come in a variety of strap colors, with a single silver button and digital screen. It’s comfortable to wear and sweat resistant which is good, because I know I’ll be packing in some major calorie-burn sessions over the next month in my HIIT and circuit classes.
  Here are some of the features I’m excited to use:
  
  Step Tracker: while I love the fact that my iPhone tracks my steps, I don’t always have it on me! For instance, at night when I’m making dinner, cleaning the house, taking Roxy out to go to the bathroom… everything adds up and the TomTom® Touch tracks that.
  24/7 Heart Rate Monitor: not only does the TomTom® Touch track my heart rate while I work out, but it keeps track of it throughout the whole day, which means I can get an accurate assessment of my resting heart rate.
  Sleep Tracker: wearing the TomTom® Touch at night will also track my sleep and give me insight as to whether or not I’m getting enough.
  Calories Burned: whether I’m getting in a heavy sweat sesh or just walking around the office, the TomTom® Touch tracks it all and at the end of the day, I can take a look to see what really went down, for better or worse.
  
  
  
  Body Composition Analysis: OK, so this feature I haven’t seen before. The body composition analysis calculates your muscle/fat ratio and all you have to do it wear it for at least 15 minutes, hit the button and let it calculate. Plus, you can track your progress over a period of time to see how you’re improving! I’m very interested to see how this works since I haven’t seen this before.
  
  
  I can’t wait to get going with my TomTom® Touch and see how it compares to other trackers. And it’s all synced directly to my phone for easy viewing access, plus it was easy to set up with video tutorials to help every step of the way.
  Follow TomTom® on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
  This is a sponsored conversation written by me on behalf of TomTom.  The opinions and text are all mine. 
  READ THIS NEXT: 19 Reasons To Exercise That Aren’t About Weight Loss"