"Summertime calls for light fare and al fresco air. When you want to spend the majority of your evenings enjoying the warm breeze and sensational sunsets, it’s best to keep your dinner meals simple, and nothing screams summer or easiness like grilling. The following 11 grilling recipes are perfect for the entire family, require little prep and effort, and taste delightfully delicious.Grilled Caesar Salad by Get Healthy U
  
  
  
  Caesar salad is an American classic, and this fun version adds a little extra zest and crunch by grilling the Romaine hearts. Top with grilled fish or chicken, and your meal is complete!Nectarine Fruit Salsa Chicken by Food Faith Fitness
  
  
  
  Nectarines are a cherished summer fruit, and can be used in so many fun ways, like slicing, throwing on the grill and combining with feta cheese, fresh basil, onions and seasoning for a sweet and savory salsa atop grilled chicken.
  Related: 9 Low Calorie Cocktail Recipes For Healthier Sipping
  3.Black Bean Quinoa Stuffed Red Peppers by Picky Eater Blog
  
  Though they sound decadent, these stuffed peppers are a piece of cake to make, and great for healthy summer grilling. The charred red pepper and the avocado lime sauce pair perfectly with the black beans, quinoa, veggies and cheese.Lemon Basil Chicken Veggie Kebabs by Get Healthy U
  
  
  
  Like a meal on a stick, kebabs are a fun way to take advantage of the grill without requiring a lot of work. This sensational and healthy marinade keeps the chicken from drying out, and adds depth of flavor to the kebabs. Pair with a refreshing yet hearty quinoa and fruit salad to really round out your summer feast.Grilled Salmon With Peach Salsa by Get Healthy U
  
  
  
  There’s never a bad time for salsa, and summer is the perfect time to utilize the season’s bounty of incredible fruits, including peaches. This particular salsa adds a mild kick of sweet and spicy flavor to complement the richness of the salmon.Easy Grilled Italian Vegetables by Get Healthy U
  
  
  
  Rather than creating heat in the kitchen by roasting or sautéing veggies, utilizing the grill keeps things simple and cool. They add a zesty, smoky, charred and healthy side to a lean protein off the grill.Lemon-Pepper Shrimp by Prevention
  
  
  
  This delicious summer supper is an elevated finger food you will make time and time again. Make sure to marinate the shrimp first and start the grill up. Throw the veggies on first, then add the quick-cooking shrimp last for a perfectly-timed meal straight off the barbecue.Grilled Pizza by Prevention
  
  
  
  Pizza is always made in the oven… right? Not when it’s summertime and the grill is calling your name. This twist gives your pizza a crisp and smoky crust that pairs well with an array of yummy ingredients like sweet corn, poblano chilis, grated pepper jack and cilantro.
  9. Grilled Artichokes And Polenta With Pesto by Feasting At Home
  
  This rustic, family-style Italian feast will make your mouth water before the first bite even hits your mouth. The fresh artichokes are blanched, then grilled to provide a delicious, earthy and smoky char. The polenta is grilled, the cherry tomatoes are blistered and the meal is drizzled with pesto, sprinkled with capers and layered with basil leaves. Yum!Grilled Caprese Skewers by Foodie Crush
  
  
  
  You don’t need to limit yourself to grilling staples like meats and burgers, so try out tomatoes, sturdy halloumi or bread and cheese, and create these beautiful bites of healthy goodness. Burgers With Sautéed Mushrooms, Arugula And Dijon Aioli by Prevention
  
  
  
  When you do want a bite of a savory burger, this is the one to make. Layers of rich cheese, juicy mushrooms, savory mustard aioli and fresh arugula make for some seriously gourmet grilling grub.
  READ THIS NEXT: 11 Dinner Recipes Under 400 Calories"