"Sometimes the hardest part of committing to a great workout is all the prep-work involved. You have to make sure you’re wearing the right shoes for the right exercise; you spend time picking out the right weight for your dumbbell or the resistance band that’s tight enough but not going kill your shoulders. By the time you get to the actual exercise part, you’re ready to throw in the towel and go get a pizza. So how about skipping all of that hassle and just taking six quick minutes at home (or anywhere else) to get your workout done? No-equipment workouts are not only on-trend but super easy and effective. This six-minute no-equipment workout is a no-frills way to get in shape using the challenge of just your own body.
  
  Benefits Of Bodyweight-Only Workouts
  Using dumbbells or machines to strength train or get your cardio on are great, don’t get us wrong. But it’s important to remember that all you really need to get an effective workout is your own body. Here are just a few amazing benefits of bodyweight-only, no-equipment workouts:
  1. Combines Strength + Cardio
  Bodyweight workouts allow you to easily combine strength and cardio, which is the fat-burning equation you need to truly transform your body. If you want to lose weight and gain muscle, you can’t just do strength OR cardio, you need them both! Bodyweight workouts where you transition from strength training moves to cardio intervals work both your aerobic and anaerobic systems, giving you the cardiovascular and muscle benefits you need to get in shape!
  2. They’re Easy to Modify To Fit Your Fitness Level
  
  With weighted workouts, you really have to make sure you’ve found the correct weight for different exercises, otherwise the move will either be too easy or too challenging and possibly risky. But with bodyweight exercises, it’s more intuitive. You start doing the movement, and if it’s not challenging enough you can do more repetitions or increase your speed; similarly, if it’s too challenging you can go slower or take breaks in between.
  3. You Can Do Them Anywhere + They Cost NOTHING!
  Gyms and group fitness classes are great, but with bodyweight-only workouts you can get a solid workout done anywhere, at any time. All you need is a little space and your own body! It’s freeing to know that you don’t have to drive to the gym, park, go to the locker room, wait for a machine to open up, etc. With no-equipment workouts, it’s all in your hands. You can workout at home, while traveling, or wherever else you might be.
  6-Minute No-Equipment Workout
  Alright, now that we’ve covered why bodyweight exercise rocks, let’s get down to a quick bodyweight workout you can try yourself. It’s a full-body routine that will work your upper body, core, and lower body too! Here’s how it works:
  
  Perform each exercise below for one minute, making sure to switch arms or legs 30 seconds through for exercises that work one side.
  Start with a light jog or march to get warmed up and make sure to stretch when you’re done.
  The entire workout should take you 6 minutes. If you feel like going through the workout twice, you’ll have completed a super-charged 12-minute workout.
  
  Watch the video below to see Chris demonstrate the moves or check out the descriptions beneath the video if you’re completely new to these moves. Go get ’em!
  Kick Through Lunge
  
  A) Stand tall with your feet hip distance apart. Take a large step backward with the right foot and lower your body toward the floor. Both legs should be bent at a 90-degree angle at the bottom of the lunge.
  B) Straighten your left leg and kick your right foot forward to hip height or higher if possible. Repeat for 30 seconds, then switch legs for 30 seconds.
  Push-Up Punch
  
  A) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists, your feet together and your body in a straight line.
  B) Keeping your body straight, bend your arms to lower your body toward the floor.
  C) Straighten your arms to push your body back up into plank position as you punch your right arm forward. Return your hand to the floor, lower back to the bottom of your push-up and repeat punching with left arm. Continue for 1 minute. Modify by placing your knees on the ground if needed.
  Related: 30-Minue Anywhere Bodyweight Workout
  Booty Pop
   
  
  A) Begin in a low squat with knees and toes pointed outward, hands on the floor in front of you and chest lifted so torso is tall.
  B) Straighten the legs to raise your hips up, keeping your hands on the floor and relaxing head down. Return to start and repeat for 1 minute.
  Dips and Kicks
  
  A) Begin by sitting on the floor with your feet hip distance apart in front of you. Bring your arms behind you with your hands flat on the floor, fingers facing glutes.
  B) Lift body up off floor, squeezing abs and glutes to keep the body lifted.
  B) Bend the elbows behind you, working your triceps as you kick your right foot into the air until your leg is straight. Return to start and repeat, switching legs. Continue for 1 minute.
  Single Leg Hamstring Bridge
  
  A) Lie on back with bent knees hip distance apart, and feet flat on mat stacked under the knees. Extend one leg long towards the ceiling.
  B) Squeeze glutes and lift hips off the mat into a bridge. Lower and lift the hips for 30 seconds then switch legs and repeat on other side for 30 seconds.
  Bend & Extend Ab Tuck
  
  A) Start seated on mat with arms behind you, hands on the mat and fingers facing your backside. Sit back on your hands and lift up your feet off the mat, keeping the knees bent.
  B) Keep abs tight and press your legs out long and lower back down slightly. You should feel your lower abdominals working, then push yourself back up and pull your knees in to return to your starting position.
  Congratulations, you did it! For a punch of power go back to the top and repeat. For a true kick butt challenge, go through this series 3 times: it’s still less than 30 minutes and full of calorie-burning power!
  READ THIS NEXT: 4 Simple Moves for a Full Tabata Workout"