"When you think of HIIT (“High Intensity Interval Training”) you usually think about exercises like squat jumps, jump lunges and other standing moves. But here’s a newsflash: you can use HIIT to work your upper body, too! Upper body HIIT workouts help you strengthen and tone your way to beautiful arms and shoulders using the HIIT format for extra heart rate intensity and calorie burn. In upper body HIIT workouts, strength exercises such as push-ups and tricep dips are combined with upper body power moves such as push-up jacks or burpees. This combination helps you build muscle while burning calories, giving you a complete and awesome workout.
  The Workout
  Remember, when it comes to HIIT, the key to your results is dependent on your effort. For each exercise you will go as hard as you can for 20 seconds, then rest for 10 seconds before going to the next move. Repeat the entire sequence again for a total of 8 intervals.
  BLOCK 1 [20 seconds each/10 seconds in between. Repeat 2x]
  
  1. Push-Ups
  A) Begin in a plank position with hands below shoulders, legs long behind you, and body contracted to hold your spine in a straight line.
  B) With elbows pointing slightly back, bend elbows and slowly begin to lower your body until you are just above the ground. Keep your gaze over your fingertips and body in a straight line.
  C) As you exhale, tighten your belly and push yourself back up to a plank position. That is one repetition.
  2. Push-Up Jacks
  A) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists, your feet together, and your body in a straight line.
  B) Lower to a pushup while jumping feet to a wide position. Keep abs tight and back straight.
  C) Jump your feet back together as you straighten your arms to return to start.
  3. Punching
  A) Stand with feet slightly wider than shoulder distance apart and bend knees slightly. Tighten the core to keep your trunk stable.
  B) Punch out one arm at a time at a steady pace.
  4. Plank Jacks
  A) Begin in a plank position with your shoulders over your wrists, your feet together, and your body in a straight line.
  B) Similar to the motion of a jumping jack, jump your feet wide while keeping your buttocks down. Jump your feet back together.
  Related: The Ultimate HIIT Workout To Blast Belly Fat
  BLOCK 2 [20 seconds each/10 seconds in between. Repeat 2x]
  
  1. Dips and Kicks
  A) Begin by sitting on the floor with your feet hip distance apart in front of you. Bring your arms behind you with your hands flat on the floor, fingers facing glutes.
  B) Lift body up off floor, squeezing abs and glutes to keep the body lifted.
  C) Bend the elbows behind you, working your triceps as you kick your right foot into the air until your leg is straight. Return to start and repeat, switching legs.
  2. Crab Walk
  A) Begin by sitting on the floor with your feet hip distance apart in front of you and arms behind your back with fingers facing hips. Lift hips off the floor and tighten abdominals.
  B) Begin “walking” forward by moving your left hand followed by your right foot, and then your right hand followed by your left foot. Walk four or more steps as space allows, then walk back. Continue back and forth for desired amount of time.
  3. Bear Walk
  A) Crouch down with hands in front of you shoulder-width apart and feet behind you with hips up in the air and eyes forward.
  B) Crawl forward, starting with your right hand with your left foot following with the left hand and the right foot. Take four steps or more depending on space, then turn around and bear walk back.
  4. Burpees
  A) Start in a plank position with arms and legs long, hands shoulder distance apart.
  B) Walk or jump both feet between your hands, coming into a low squat. Jump straight up as high as possible, land, and come back to your plank position.
  Want to save this workout? #PinForLater
  
  READ THIS NEXT: 12-Minute HIIT Workout For Bad Knees
  Save"