"Let’s get real: mornings can be hectic. Between taking a shower, getting the kids out the door and hopefully eating a little breakfast, most of us don’t have an extra hour—or even 20 minutes—to spare. But as you age, it becomes more important than ever to prioritize your health, both mentally and physically. Taking a few minutes in the morning to care for yourself before doing anything else can make your entire day flow more seamlessly. Here are the best morning habits of women who stay healthy, happy and strong into the 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond.
  1. Meditate
  Some people love to meditate, and others avoid it like the plague. But you don’t have to spend 20 minutes in silence to get the benefits of a meditative state. Maybe you only have a few minutes, but that’s fine. The health benefits of just a few minutes of meditation can reduce stress, steady your breathing, and improve your mood—something that’s increasingly important in menopause when fluctuating hormones can cause mood swings or unpleasant feelings. Do it before you leave your bedroom or even before you leave the bed. Just focus on your breath for a few minutes and set a positive intention for the day ahead. It may just surprise you how much this can help you have a good day as opposed to bounding out of bed and checking your smartphone right away.
  Related: Which Type of Meditation Is Right For You?
  2. Drink 16 Ounces of Water
  
  Start your day with 16 ounces of water to flush your system of toxins and rehydrate after not drinking anything during the night. Bonus points for adding lemon to your water; this simple practice alkalizes your body, balances pH levels, helps your digestive system, and gives your immune system a boost for the day ahead. What’s not to love? I’ve been starting my day with lemon water for years, and so has my mother! I remember growing up I’d watch her do this simple practice—it is truly a great way to balance your body and start your day on a healthy note.
  3. Eat Breakfast
  All right, for all those breakfast skippers out there, we’ve got some bad news: you’re not doing your health any favors. Not only does skipping breakfast slow down your metabolism, but it can make you cranky, tired, and less productive at work. Stoke your metabolic fire by eating a healthy, well-balanced breakfast—even if it’s something you can grab-and go. Set aside a bag of trail mix and some Greek yogurt, or at least a banana or smoothie. Getting some fuel in your body before you start your day is key!
  4. Take a multivitamin
  
  I take a multivitamin every single day. While I’m a huge proponent of getting the nutrients your body needs from food first and supplements second, taking a daily vitamin, in addition to eating healthy, can help ensure your body stays in top condition even on days when you don’t have time to eat home-cooked, nutrient-dense meals. My favorite multivitamin is New Chapter’s Every Woman’s One Daily Multivitamin because it’s made with certified organic vegetables and herbs. I love that New Chapter vitamins are different than other multivitamins; they’re made with easily digestible vitamins and minerals that have been fermented with probiotics and whole foods, making them gentle enough to take on an empty stomach. For decades, New Chapter has studied the power of fermentation and uses a proprietary fermentation method for all its vitamins and minerals. The result is a nutrient-packed fermentate that has many beneficial factors, including nature’s immune-boosters called beta-glucans.
  
  Their multivitamin also contains nutrients like organic chaste tree berry and vitamins D3 and C, which aid in bone, hormone and digestion support.* They’re also made with superfood herbal blends that include ginger, organic turmeric and chamomile. Plus, they’re 100% vegetarian, Non-GMO Project Verified, and gluten free.
  You can purchase New Chapter’s Every Woman’s One Daily 40+ Multivitamin from Amazon.
  5. Stay away from your email
  Yep, I’m giving you permission to NOT check your email first thing in the morning, which can raise your blood pressure and start your day on a stressful note. Now, for those of you saying “But Chris! I NEED to check my email at 5 in the morning for my job,” I’m going to ask you to take a cue from the French, who just passed a law protecting workers’ “right to disconnect.” The law requires companies to set specific hours after the work day when their staff shouldn’t send or answer emails in order to prevent burnout. We’re challenging you to try and take a few minutes to meditate, feed yourself, and nourish your body and mind before leaping to check your inbox tomorrow—and then make it a daily habit.
  6. Do a 10-Minute Workout
  Who says you don’t have time to workout? Just ten minutes can burn calories (roughly 100 for the average person working at a good intensity), rev your metabolism, and energize you for the day ahead! Get your heart pumping with this simple workout to start your day feeling healthy and strong.
  DO THIS SEQUENCE 3 TIMES TOTAL:
  
  1 minute of light jogging in place
  Jumping Jacks: 30 seconds
  Squat jumps: 30 seconds
  Push-ups: 30 seconds
  Mountain climbers: 30 seconds
  1 minute of rest before you repeat
  
  
  And there you have it. You’re setting your body and mind up for a healthy, happy day ahead. By taking time for yourself in the morning, you can stay healthy and strong at every age.
  This is a sponsored post from New Chapter Vitamins & Supplements, who provided me with free product for our review. We only partner with brands that align with our mission of health, wellness, and positivity—whose awesome products we think can actually improve your daily life. All opinions are my own.
  *These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.
  This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. 
  Certified Organic by International Certification Services, Inc., Medina, ND, USA
  READ THIS NEXT: 7 Tricks To Become an Early Morning Exerciser"