"The Whole 30 Program has become popular in recent years as the latest diet on the market. And while we don’t advocate for any certain diet here at Get Healthy U, we are all about eating real food which is one of the Whole 30s biggest components. So if you’re already on the Whole 30 Plan and are in need of some Whole 30 lunch ideas and dinner wins or are wanting to make a change, then this week-long meal plan of Whole 30 recipes will help you on your way. Sunday through Saturday, we’ve got an awesome dinner to keep you full and healthy all week long.
  
  But what is exactly is the Whole 30? The Whole 30 program was created in 2009 by Melissa Hartwig, a Certified Sports Nutritionist, as a month long nutritional plan in an effort to help people eliminate certain foods that may be negatively impacting their health and focus on whole foods, particularly protein, fruits and veggies, and healthy fats that are rich in nutrients and impact your body positively. Specifically, the Whole 30 program and its founder believe in removing sugar, grains, dairy, and legumes from your diet and replacing them with more wholesome, unprocessed ingredients. It’s similar to the Paleo diet (also known as the caveman diet) however the Whole 30 program is much stricter removing everything the Paleo diet does but also adding all dairy, grains, sugars and alcohol to the elimination list. The Whole 30 program was also developed with more of a short-term focus to educate people on the way their body reacts to certain foods and then create an individualized plan after the month long diet based off those learnings whereas the Paleo diet is more of a long term generic plan. The Whole 30 plan seeks to kill cravings that you may have been battling for years, change your emotional relationship with food, heal your gut, strengthen your immune system and restore your metabolism. Sounds good, right?
  Specifically here’s what you can/can’t eat:
  The “YES” List
  
  Seafood
  Meat
  Eggs
  Vegetables
  Some fruit
  Healthy Fats (oils, nuts, seeds)
  
  The “NO” List
  
  Sugar (real and artificial)
  Alcohol
  Grains (including but not limited to quinoa, wheat, barley, corn, rice, oats, etc.)
  Legumes (including but not limited to all beans, peas, peanut butter, all forms of soy, peanuts, etc.)
  Dairy
  MSG, Carrageenan, Sulfites
  Re-created junk foods or treats with “approved” ingredients
  
  Now to be totally honest, the team at Get Healthy U does not adhere to the Whole 30 program. We love quinoa, beans, peanut butter, Greek yogurt and a handful of other things we’d consider to be healthy but are excluded from the Whole 30 plan. But that doesn’t mean that this diet isn’t an awesome change for some people and we appreciate the fact that it gets people to eat more real, plant-based food. So even if you aren’t a Whole 30 follower, these recipes are still delicious and awesome to work into your regular routine. We all can benefit from more real food in our lives!
  Related: The One Diet I Actually Suggest
  Your 7-Day Whole 30 Meal Plan
  Sunday
  Slow Cooker Pumpkin Chili
  
  Slow cookers are perfect for Sundays and this pumpkin chili is the most delicious and filling dinner. The addition of pumpkin brings with it a whole slew of health benefits including fiber, vitamin A, beta-carotene and more. Plus, we love being able to use the leftovers in our lunch the next day.
  Monday
  Mango Chicken Salad with Avocado
  
  This mango chicken salad with avocado makes for such a light, but filling dinner. Packed with tons of veggies, like kale, red cabbage, bell pepper and more, it’s a nutrient-rich meal with yummy flavors from the mango and red wine vinegar dressing.
  Tuesday
  Paleo Skillet Beef Fajitas
  
  Participate in Taco Tuesday with these skillet beef fajitas! Made with tons of veggies and spices, this healthy recipe is packed with flavor and sure to be a family favorite, no matter the diet!
  
  Get the Whole 30 Meal Plan!
  READ THIS NEXT: Your 1-Week Trader Joe’s Meal Plan"