"I’ve never fit in anywhere. Actually, I never really think about it. As a result, I usually leave a wake of mayhem and controversy wherever I go. So the same thing will probably happen with T NATION. I don’t go looking for trouble, but there’s this thing inside me that drives me to go after the things I really want, with little regard to the potential damage. Sometimes I lose; sometimes I win. Either way, I have the time of my life. I make a plan and I execute it.\nI made the decision early on in life to devote my energies to the sciences of muscle building. In essence, my world is the strength and bodybuilding business, and being the oddball, independent thinker I am, I’m not going to stand idly by and watch the hardcore scene get castrated.\nWhere can you get real muscle-building information these days anyway? I mean, where are the guys who are into bodybuilding because they can’t stop, ever! The guys who aren’t really interested in competing, they just want to get huge. And if they were the only ones left on the planet, they’d still be in the gym, pumping actin and myosin filaments like they’re deriving some great erotic pleasure from the pain.\nWhen it comes right down to it, everyone involved with T NATION is just like you… we’re muscle heads. We want to get bigger, stronger, and leaner. We really want to know what the absolute best training methods are, and which supplements work and which ones don’t. We’re driven to search out the best new muscle-enhancing approach, then test it, theorize about it, apply it, and write about it. Whether it’s a training innovation, or the newest supplement development, we want to be the first to find it.\nThat’s the reason for publishing T NATION.\nOur goal is to create controversy, to cut through lies and the incredibly thick and distasteful veneer of marketing. We’re consumer watch dogs. We don’t worry about who we’re going to tick off. We create the kinds of supplements we want to use and give to top-level lifters and professional athletes.We’ll talk about training like it’s meant to be. Most of all, we’re having the times of our lives."