"Struggling to for new healthy breakfast ideas? Or perhaps you need a new healthy snack? We have you covered with these banana chocolate muffins. Oh yeah, and before you stop reading, they’re also flourless, so they’ll work for almost many diet restrictions.
  This recipe is a 3-in-1 special by delivering a convenient, hearty and sweet snack that can also be a meal. With less than 100 calories, you can have a couple muffins between lunch and dinner for a high-protein snack, with a little chocolate to satisfy those mid-day cravings.
  So easy. So healthy. And most importantly, so delicious.
  Why it’s a Healthy Recipe
  These banana chocolate muffins are full of fiber, healthy fats and food-sourced protein, this muffin is a macronutrient balanced on-the-go meal.
  The combination of Greek yogurt and egg whites make this a great high-protein snack (if you have at least 2-3 muffins). And the fiber-packed oats are great any weight-management regime because they help slow down digestion, which keeps you feeling full for longer.
  And although most oats contain gluten—gasp!—the USDA claims that oats are essential in a heart-healthy diet, lowering cholesterol and reducing the risk of coronary heart disease. (Or you could just use a gluten-free option if you have a gluten allergy.)
  Banana Chocolate Muffins
  Yields: 12 muffins
  Cook time: 25 minutes
  Difficulty: Easy
  Serving size: 1 muffin
  Wet ingredients
  
  2 smashed extra ripe bananas, yields about 3/4 cup
  1/4c non-fat Greek yogurt
  1 tbsp. all-natural almond butter
  1 tbsp. melted coconut oil (unrefined, cold-filtered)
  1 c liquid egg whites
  1 tsp. vanilla extract
  1 tbsp. raw, unfiltered honey
  
  Dry ingredients
  
  1/2c oat flour + 1/4c old fashion oats
  1 tsp. baking powder
  1 tsp. baking soda
  1 tbsp. granular sugar substitute*
  ¼ tsp. sea salt
  1/4 tsp. cinnamon
  1/4c slivered almonds
  2 tbsp. dark chocolate chips**
  
  *We used Swerve, erythritol-based sugar substitute.
  **We used Enjoy Life dairy-, soy- and nut-free, semi-sweet chocolate chips.
   Directions
  1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Line a muffin pan with 12 paper liners.
  2. To make the oat flour simply add ½ cup of oats to a blender and pulse until smooth.
  3. In a large mixing bowl, add all wet ingredients, and stir until combined. In another bowl, mix together all the dry ingredients. Then add in the dry bowl to the wet bowl, and mix until well combined. Gently fold in the whole oats, chocolate chips and almond slivers.
  5. Divide the batter into the paper liners, about ½ to ¾ up the side, using a spoon or ice-cream scooper.
  6. Bake for 20 minutes. Remove and let cool. Enjoy immediately, or store in an airtight container in the fridge for up to a week, or freeze.
  
  Nutritional Information & Macros
  Dietary Information: Vegetarian, No Sugar Added, Gluten-Free (if gluten-free oats are used), Kosher
  Macros per serving (1 muffin)
  
  87 calories
  3.6g fat
  9.3g carbs
  6g protein"