"I eat dessert every day. No really, I do. And I don’t like to hold back.
  That said, I obviously realize that some variations of my favorite snacks can’t be enjoyed regularly. Which is why I’m always working to find healthier variations of my favorite desserts, without sacrificing the flavor.
  Here’s a new spin on rice pudding, which doesn’t even include any rice. It comes from self-proclaimed exercise and food junkie, Sara Gaylord. Not impressed by the credentials? You will be once you try this recipe.
  Ingredients
  
  1.5 cup rinsed quinoa
  1 can light coconut milk
  3 cups unsweetened almond milk (plain or vanilla)
  ¼ tsp cinnamon
  11 packets sweetener of choice (Stevia, splenda, or whatever you prefer)
  ¼ cup golden raisins
  ½ tsp vanilla extract
  
  Recipe Instructions
  
  First, make the quinoa. In a medium saucepan, sautee the quinoa in about 1 tbsp coconut oil for 3-5 minutes.
  Add coconut milk and ½ cup water. Bring to a boil, then cover and simmer for about 12-15 minutes or until the liquid has evaporated.
  Add 3 cups unsweetened almond milk, ¼ tsp cinnamon, 11 packets of Stevia/Splenda/your preferred sweetener, and ¼ c golden raisins.
  Cook over low heat for 15 minutes or until the almond milk is almost evaporated, stirring occasionally.
  Remove from heat and stir in ½ tsp vanilla extract. Serve warm. Or cold.
  
  Cook time: 35 minutes 
  Rice Pudding Macros (for the entire batch: you should split into 3 servings)
  35g protein 200g carbs 40g fat for the entire batch
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"