"When it comes to dessert I have a simple philosophy: Enjoy.
  And yet, for some people, the ability to indulge is limited by the fear of undoing your hard work. Even if you know you should, “Enjoy these cookies,” the well-intentioned freedom and encouragement are met with resistance and stress.
  If you know how to set up a balanced eating plan (think 80/20 rule), there’s no need to hold back when you eat something that isn’t healthy. And yet, most people would still prefer healthy variations that trick your taste buds into enjoying what you eat without a second thought.
  Rather than buying goodies from the store—you can create your own variations (in not much time)—and still satisfy your sweet tooth without thinking anything other than, “Wow this is good.”
  When I share recipes with my coaching clients, a common favorite is no-bake protein cookies. The cookie dough-like dessert is easy to make and relatively quick to prepare. And since the government is cracking down on cookie dough, this recipe will give you more peace of mind. Consider them perfect for cheat days, weekdays, the holidays, or really any day. Dig in and enjoy.
  No-Bake Protein Cookies
  The Ingredients
  
  ½ cup cashew butter
  2 scoops protein powder (I like BioTrust because it creates a thicker batter, but other options work too)
  1 tsp vanilla extra
  ½ cup old-fashioned oats
  1/3 cup cocoa powder
  ¼ cup ground flaxseed
  ¼ cup almond milk
  Optional: Add in some chocolate chips. This is if you want to make chocolate-chocolate chip cookies
  
  Instructions
  
  Mix all of the ingredients in a bowl. Order of operations does not matter. Mix until it forms a thick, grainy, cookie-dough like batter. You don’t want it to be too smooth or watery.
  Set out a piece of wax paper and scoop out a spoon-sized piece of cookie-dough. Roll into a ball and place on the wax paper.
  Place into the fridge or freezer (freezer if you want in about 20 minutes, fridge if you want to wait an hour)
  Eat and enjoy
  
  For the macro-conscious eaters, depending on the size of your cookies you’re looking at the following breakdown: ~140 calories, 10 grams protein, 8 grams fat, 8 grams carbs
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"