"When you think nachos, the last thing that probably comes to mind is “healthy.” Maybe it’s the chips, the cheese, the sour cream, and more topping than you can imagine. (Did I mention the cheese?)
  Nachos don’t have to be a bad snack. In fact, they can be a protein loaded meal, if you make them the right way and are willing to make a few substitutions that maintain the taste but sacrifice some nutritional gut bombs (the type you don’t want). These are protein packed nachos. Perfect for a snack and always good for any sporting event.
  Born Fitness Recipes: High Protein Healthier Nachos
  Ingredients
  Prep time: About 30-35 minutes (can be quicker with multiple hands)
  (Serves about 4 people)
  
  4 ounces of tortilla chips (buy whatever kind you want. Honestly. The amount is the issue here)
  1 tablespoon olive oil
  12 ounces black beans
  ½ cup sweet corn
  ¼ cup diced onions
  2 medium sized sweet potatoes
  1 jalapeño pepper, sliced thin
  1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
  1 teaspoon cumin
  1 teaspoon chili powder
  ¾-1 pound ground beef or turkey
  3 stalks scallions, diced
  Salt (sprinkle on as desired)
  1/3 cup shredded cheese of your choice (optional)
  
  Guacamole Ingredients
  
  2 ripe avocados, peeled, pitted
  3/4 cup chopped tomatoes
  1 jalapeño pepper, diced
  1/2 cup cilantro leaves
  1/4 cup chopped onion
  2 Tablespoons lemon juice
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon garlic
  
  Directions: How to Make Healthier Nachos
  Prepare the meat
  In a large skillet (coat with butter or coconut oil), cook and stir the ground beef over medium-high heat, breaking the meat up as it cooks, until the meat is no longer pink and has started to brown, about 10 minutes. Stir in the onions, cayenne, cumin, and chili powder and cook for about 5 more minutes. 
  Prepare the sweet potatoes
  The long version
  Set an oven for 375 degrees. Wash and cut the potatoes into thin slices. Place on a pan, drizzle in olive oil, sprinkle with salt, and bake for 30 minutes.
  The quick version
  Wash the sweet potatoes and pierce a few times with a fork. Then wrap the potatoes with a paper towel and microwave for 4-5 minutes. Once cooled, turn a grill on medium-high heat, cut the potatoes into thin slices, drizzle in olive oil, and place on the grill for 2-3 minutes per side.
  The beans and corn
  Heat over medium high heat on a skillet, or follow the microwaveable instructions to prepare ASAP!
  The Guacamole
  I like my guacamole made fast and served chunky, so for that I’ve found that the Vitamix blender turns me into a much better chef. If you don’t have a Vitamix, just use any blender. Or apply right here to win a free one. All part of theBorn Fitness monthly giveaway experience.
  
  Place all ingredients into the Vitamix container in the order listed and secure lid.
  Select to blender level 1 for about 5 seconds and then more to speed 3.
  Blend for 15-20 seconds, using the tamper to mix ingredients into the blades.
  Make sure no raw ingredients are on the sides, scrap down, blend for another 5-10 seconds and serve. I enjoy my guacamole to be thick and chunky and not too smooth. If you want it creamier, simple blend longer. Add to nachos or use as a dip.
  
  It’s Alive! Protein-Packed Nachos
  On a large platter, lay out the chips in a single layer. Top with the sweet potato wedges or create another thin layer. Then add the ground beef or turkey, and top with black beans and corn. Add the diced scallions and sliced jalapenos and sprinkle with salt, and then top with the guacamole.
  **If you want the cheese (I don’t add because I choose meat over cheese in my kosher universe) place a pat of butter in a skillet, add ¼ cup of milk, and then add ¼ cup of cheese of your choice. Whisk the mixture until smooth and then drizzle over your chips.
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"