"It’s easy to use “the latest science” as a guide for your healthy living plan.
  The problem: don’t conflate new science with proven science. 
  New research is published all the time. Research concepts are not the same as validated constructs.
  Science is fundamentally built around a series of questions.
  The first answer to a question is not always the right one.
  And in health, the first answer tends to lead to 5 more questions before you truly know what you need to apply to your life.
  When the same question is asked over and over and over again — and the answer provides clarity — that’s when you’ve arrived at a good conclusion.
  When the same question is asked over and over and over again — and the answer provides clarity — that’s when you’ve arrived at a good conclusion.
  If you are always reacting to information, then you are always changing, shifting, and rarely consistent.
  You might consider it informed.
  It’s just as easy to look at it as unstable.
  A healthy mindset is flexible in the face of convincing evidence. No one wants to follow a broken plan that simply had flaws that were previously invisible.
  A dangerous mindset shifts with every new piece of information.
  When you learn something new, consider its context and depth. Every new piece of information is not worthy of application.
  In general, your health will benefit if you can wait to apply what you learn until you’re confident that it’s true.
  Remember, consistent behaviors are the best way to reach your goals.
  If you keep on changing, then you’re more likely to keep on chasing.
  READ MORE
  
  Choose The Right Pain
  Beware Of The Next Trend
  Please Stop: Jillian Michaels
  
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"