"If you search “Adam Bornstein” in Google, one of the top suggested searches is “eggs.” For most humans that might seem odd. But considering that I’m known for my love of all things scrambles, omelets, and benedict, it should really come as no surprise. After all, I’m the same guy who once ate 3 eggs every day for 3 months all in the name of science. (The aptly titled, “Eggsperiment.“) Truth be told, I have my own egg recipe book, which includes everything from the simple Born Scramble, to complex dishes. This meal is a favorite because it’s simple but also has a unique taste. Combining delicious eggs with cheese and a little spice delivers a recipe that will certainly satisfy. (Note: The smoked salmon is an optional addition, but is pretty awesome as it adds a little bit of saltiness.)
  Born Fitness Recipes: Jalapeño and Goat Cheese Omelet
  Ingredients
  
  1 jalapeño pepper
  1 tablespoon butter
  1/4 onion, thinly sliced
  4 large eggs
  1/2 teaspoon sea salt
  1/2 teaspoon black pepper
  1/2 cup crumbled goat cheese
  4 cherry tomatoes
  1/4 avocado
  2-4 oz. smoked salmon (optional)
  
  Directions
  
  Set a boiler to medium-high heat and char the jalapeno, turning it frequently, until it’s blackened and slightly collapsed. Cut out the seeds and slice the pepper into thin strips. (If you really want it spicy, you can keep the seeds in.)
  Turn the boiler to medium heat and allow the butter to coat the pan.
  As the butter melts, slice the onions. Then add the onion sliced jalapenos to the base of the pan or skillet. Cook for about 5 minutes, or until the onions start to become soft. Then remove the mixture and let it cool slightly.
  Beat the eggs and then add to the skillet and heat over medium-low heat.
  On a separate burner, char the 4 cherry tomatoes on medium-high heat, moving them every 1-2 minutes.
  As the eggs begin to set around the edges, lift them up with the tip of the spatula and let the egg flow. [If desired, add the smoked salmon now.] Repeat the edge-lifting process until you can’t do so easily any longer. Finally flip the eggs so it’s folded in half, omelet-style. Let it cook for another minute until a light gold brown appears.
  Plate your omelet, top with the salt and pepper.
  As the omelet cools, slice up 1/4 of an avocado into small pieces and remove the tomatoes from the burner and slice in half.
  Add the goat cheese, tomatoes, and avocado over the top. Enjoy.
  
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"