"Breakfast, lunch, and dinner always seem to be the easiest meals to figure out. But for most people, especially those in the working world, finding healthy snacks is oftentimes a frustrating challenge. Whether it’s the deceptively unhealthy “100-calorie” packs, or offices providing fuel that tastes greats and leaves you feeling like crap a few hours later, it’s not easy to find what your body needs…and enjoys. Enter protein almond snack balls.
  This no-bake recipe, created by Liv Langdon, can be made quickly at home, stores easily at work, tastes great, and fuels your body with the type of nutrition you want and need during the day.
  Born Fitness Recipes: Protein Almond Snack Balls
  Fitness goal: Muscle gain, fat loss, maintenance, or because you’re hungry
  Allergies: nuts (from almonds), whey (if that’s your choice of protein powder)
  Paleo friendly: Yes
  How to make it vegetarian friendly: No adjustments needed; just choose protein powder accordingly
  Prep time: 10 minutes
  “Cook” time: 10 minutes
  Ingredients
  
  2 tbsp all-natural almond butter
  1 scoop protein powder of choice (vanilla, chocolate or no flavor is best in this recipe)
  2 tbsp unsweetened coconut flakes (keep 1 tbsp aside for dipping)
  Cinnamon
  2 tbsp unsweetened applesauce
  1 tbsp cacao powder  (uns. cocoa powder is OK, but less micronutrient benefits; cacao is one of the most concentrated sources of magnesium)
  Crushed almonds
  3 whole almonds
  Coconut oil, unrefined, cold-pressed
  
  How to Make Protein Almond Snack Balls
  
  In a bowl, combine all ingredients except for the last two (using your hands is totally acceptable; just make sure you wash them first.)
  In a small bowl or plate, pour remaining coconut flakes and cinnamon. Set aside for dipping.
  Rub a little coconut oil in your palms to prevent the mixture from sticking to your hands when you roll into balls.
  Take 1/3 of the mix, and roll into ½ dollar sized balls. Then dip and roll into the coconut-cinnamon mixture.
  Place one whole almond on each protein ball. Place in freezer for 10 minutes before serving. Then eat. Makes 4 balls.
  
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"