"You love burgers. I love burgers. But sometimes it’s enjoyable to step outside the traditional meat patty and create something that is just as flavorful and enjoyable, but can easily fit into anyone’s diet plan. Enter the salmon burger. High in protein and healthy fats, and when combined with the right flavors, still incredibly delicious. If you like sushi, you’ll enjoy this spin on the traditional salmon burger recipe.
  Born Fitness Recipes: Salmon Burgers
  Fitness goal: Muscle gain, fat loss, general nutrition
  Allergies: soy (from soy sauce), eggs
  Paleo friendly: Yes, unless you decide to add the bun.
  How to make it vegetarian friendly: If you’re a vegetarian that eats fish, you’re fine. If not, substitute salmon for a mix of 1/2 pound mushrooms, 1 can of lentils, and 1 large onion. Follow the same instructions below.
  Prep time: 12 minutes
  Cook time: 15 minutes
  Ingredients
  
  1 pound skinless salmon fillet, cut into chunks
  2 large eggs
  2 cloves garlic, chopped
  2 teaspoons reduced-sodium soy sauce
  1/2 teaspoon dark sesame oil
  2 scallions, chopped
  4 tablespoons pickled ginger
  2 tablespoons toasted sesame seeds
  lettuce wraps or buns of choice
  
  How to make it
  
  In a food processor, combine the salmon, egg, garlic, soy sauce, oil, scallions, and 2 tablespoons of the ginger. Pulse until coarsely chopped.
  Form into 4 equal (3” diameter) patties. Sprinkle the tops with sesame seeds.
  Coat a large nonstick skillet with cooking spray and heat over medium heat.
  Put the patties, sesame seed side down, in the pan. Cook for 5 minutes. Flip and cook for 5 minutes longer, or until done.
  Use the lettuce wraps as the base or just grab some good old fashioned buns (because bread is delicious). Add the remaining 2 tablespoons ginger to garnish.
  
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"