"Next-level results depend on the two words everyone hates:
  “It depends.”
  “Should I cut down on carbs? It depends.”
  “Do I need to change my training? It depends.”
  “Will adding supplements make a difference? It depends.”
  The words sting because it feels like a delay. You want to move fast and transform. But, that’s the first mistake. 
  “It depends” isn’t a cop-out. It’s recognition of the hierarchy that will help you finally achieve the success you desire.
  Before worrying about “it depends” questions, instead, focusing on mastering “The Big 4.” This foundation includes:
  
  Daily movement
  Vegetables, fruits, protein each day
  Prioritizing sleep and recovery
  Habituating smiling and sex
  
  Once you’ve built habits around those behaviors, then hitting the next level depends on your:
  
  Goals
  Lifestyle
  Schedule
  Budget
  Preferences
  
  Success stands at the intersection of science – personal experience – consistency – and lifestyle factors. 
  At some point, you need to customize. But, “it depends” is something that is earned. If you want to reach that point, everything depends on your willingness to move slowly and master the big 4.
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"