"Editor’s Note: This page is a list of weight loss research and resources from this article by Dr. Mike Israetel, which challenges a popular dieting approach to fat loss, weight gain, and belly fat. To read the full article, click here.
  Weight Loss Research on Glycemic Index
  Review showing a slight benefit of low GI or low GL diets, only summing up to (at most) 15lbs of weight gain over 20 years.
  Almost no difference in outcomes for 36 weeks of low-glycemic load diet in obese
  No difference on health outcomes of high or low GI diet over 5 weeks
  Relationship of GI to markers of health unclear
  No differences in outcomes between low and high GI diets over 10 weeks (including satiety)
  Review indicating some benefit in weight loss for low glycemic diets
  2013 review indicating no anthropometric (fat loss included) differences between high and low glycemic index and load diets (This is the biggest nail in the coffin right here, as it’s a comprehensive review and is recent)
  Weight Loss Research On Food Reward
  Overall review of the food reward hypothesis
  Additional research here
  Increased Hunger and Slowed Metabolism
  Extreme levels of overeating when high palatability food is presented
  Energy restriction (for a whole year) shows only small (yet significant) declines in metabolic rate
  Weight Loss Research and Metabolic Changes
  MASSIVE weight loss rates (18kg in only 12 weeks) resulted in 67% of the weight loss predicted from NO metabolic adaptations. Thus, the idea that a slowed metabolism could account for a stoppage of weight loss is not in evidence. Furthermore, not all of the difference is explained by metabolic rate slowdown, further weakening its explanatory role in preventing weight loss
  Metabolic changes only account for 120 calories–on average–of difference in metabolism during dieting, on average
  Study showing 230 calories lower metabolism for a diet of 700 calories lower than maintenance levels (obviously not enough to stall weightloss)
  The Yo-Yo Effect: Weight Regain
  Weight regain occurs often, strategies to help it unclear
  Review of behavioral interventions on weight regain show only small benefits
  Weight regain for most diets highly common, solutions unclear
  Weight Loss and Blood Sugar
  Obese people have HIGHER blood glucose levels and HIGHER blood fat levels, not lower
  Low-Carb Diets vs. Low-Fat Diets vs. Calorie Intake
  Both low-fat and lowcarb nutrition plans work, no clear winner in this study either
  Possible slight edge to low-carb, but results largely equivocal
  No meaningful difference in weight loss of low-fat and low-carb
  In controlled settings, most popular diets work about the same if they restrict energy to the same extent
  The Science of Obesity
  Fat went down only a small amount over time, carbs and calories up by a bunch
  Percent of energy from fat decreased by only 3% from 1971-2006, but obesity went up 20%
  Vegetarians and vegans take in much more carbohydrate, but are less overweigh than omnivores
  Adam BornsteinAdam Bornstein is a New York Times bestselling author and, according to The Huffington Post, “one of the most inspiring sources in all of health and fitness.” An award-winning writer and editor, Bornstein was the Fitness and Nutrition editor for Men’s Health, Editorial Director at LIVESTRONG.com, and a columnist for SHAPE, Men’s Fitness, and Muscle & Fitness. He’s also a nutrition and fitness advisor for LeBron James, Cindy Crawford, Lindsey Vonn, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. His work has been featured in dozens of publications, including The New York Times, Fast Company, ESPN, and GQ, and he’s appeared on Good Morning America, The Today Show, E! News, and The Cheddar.
  The Different Forms of Whey Protein And What's Best For You13 Caffeine-Free Ways to Boost Energy Where Interval Training goes WrongSet your Author Custom HTML Tab Content on your Profile page"